START RECIPE

LOW CARB TACO SHELLS 
Recipe by Brian Davis 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄3 cup cheddar cheese 
parchment paper 
DIRECTIONS 
Place 1/3 cup of cheese in thin layer on parchment paper. 
Microwave on high for one minute, or until cheese is bubbly. 
While the cheese is still flexible with parchment paper still attached, bend the cheese over a round object to give it a taco shell shape. 
The smaller in diameter the object is, the closer to a normal taco shell shape you will have. 
Let the cheese cool while around the object. 
When it has cooled, peel it from the parchment paper. 
Use this to make tacos, with normal fillings such as taco seasoned meat, lettuce, tomatoes, cheese, and sour cream, or you can also make smaller version of these shells to serve as low carb chips. 

START RECIPE

MIKA'S BUFFALO CHICKEN ALFREDO PIZZA 

Recipe by Mika G. 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 mama mary's prepared pizza crust 
6 tablespoons ragu light alfredo sauce with parmesan cheese (or eyeball it till it looks like enough to cover crust) 
8 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated 
1 (6 ounce) packagetyson oven roasted diced chicken breasts 
6 tablespoons franks redhot buffalo wing sauce 
1 (4 ounce) can mushrooms 
1 (2 1/4 ounce) can black olives, sliced 
1⁄2sweet onion, minced 
4 tablespoons cilantro, chopped 
DIRECTIONS 
In a small bowl mix chicken cubes with Buffalo sauce and set aside. 
Spread Alfredo sauce on prepared pizza crust and top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese. Top with chicken cubes (sprinkle on any sauce remaining in the bowl), onions, mushrooms, black olives and cilantro. Finish with the rest of the cheese. 
Bake at 425 for about 15 minutes or until crust is brown. 

START RECIPE

QUINOA CRUSTED CHICKEN FINGERS 

Recipe by FLKeysJen 

INGREDIENTS  
2 lbs boneless skinless chicken breasts, sliced into 3-inch long tenders (or buy chicken tenders) 
1 teaspoon salt 
2 teaspoons garlic powder 
2 teaspoons fresh ground black pepper 
2 teaspoons paprika 
2 cups cooked red quinoa or 2 cups white quinoa 
1⁄2 cup whole wheat breadcrumbs or 1⁄2 cup seasoned breadcrumbs 
2 egg whites 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
DIRECTIONS 
Spread out the quinoa on a piece of wax paper or aluminum foil. Sprinkle the breadcrumbs over the quinoa. With your fingertips, squeeze the quinoa and breadcrumbs together until the moisture of the quinoa is absorbed. 
Sprinkle the chicken with salt, garlic powder, pepper and paprika. 
Place the egg whites in a shallow bowl. Dip the chicken in the egg and then into the quinoa mixture. 
Warm the oil in a large skillet over high heat. When the oil is hot, add the chicken and reduce the heat to medium. Cook each side 5 minutes or until the crust begins to brown and the chicken is no longer translucent (turn once). 
Transfer fingers to a plate and serve immediately. 

START RECIPE

SOUTHERN SNOW CREAM 

Recipe by Marg CaymanDesigns  
   
INGREDIENTS  
fresh clean snow 
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk (fat free works great too) 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
VARIOUS TOPPINGS 
decorative candies or candy sprinkles 
DIRECTIONS 
Gather fresh, clean snow in a large bowl or place a bowl outside after it starts to snow to catch it. 
You will need the bowl to be very full. 
Mix in the sweetened condensed milk& vanilla. 
As you stir the snow will reduce by about half. 
Keep mixing, by hand, until thoroughly combined: it will take a few minutes. 
Mix in or top with desired candies, sprinkles or ice cream toppings: or enjoy plain. 

START RECIPE


BREAKFAST MUFFINS TO-GO 

INGREDIENTS  
3 tablespoons olive oil 
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped 
1 red onion, finely chopped 
1 zucchini, grated and squeezed to remove excess moisture 
1⁄4 cup chives, finely chopped 
1 cup cottage cheese 
1⁄2 cup gluten-free flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 pinch salt and pepper 
12 eggs 
TOPPINGS 
1 avocado, cut into quarters and fanned 
kale chips 
2 tablespoons honey 
1⁄2lemon, juice and zest 
2 tablespoons sriracha sauce 

DIRECTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 355 F and line a baking sheet with baking paper. In a bowl combine 2 Tbsp of Olive oil and the kale with salt and pepper, spread evenly on to tray and cook for 12-15 minutes or until crispy. Set aside to cool for 5 minutes. 
In a frypan on medium-high heat add remaining olive oil and caramelize the red onion for 4 minutes before adding garlic and cooking for a further 3 minutes, set aside.
In a bowl whisk your eggs then add in your onion, zucchini, chives, cheese, flour, baking powder and season with salt & pepper. Grease a 6 tin muffin tray and evenly distribute egg mix into each. 
Bake in the oven for 8-10 minutes or until egg is cooked. Remove and allow to cool for 5 minutes. Meanwhile in a bowl combine the siracha, honey and lemon juice. 
To finish your muffin top with the avocado drizzle with the Sriracha honey and top with a kale chip. 

START RECIPE

SNOW ICE CREAM 

Recipe by Ducky 
   
INGREDIENTS  
3 cups loose clean snow 
2 tablespoons milk 
1⁄4 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
DIRECTIONS 
Thoroughly mix all ingredients. 
Taste and add sugar and vanilla, as needed. 


START RECIPE

PHILLY CHEESESTEAK STUFFED PEPPERS 

Recipe by THE BOSS 
   
INGREDIENTS  
8 ounces thinly sliced roast beef 
8 slices provolone cheese 
2 large green bell peppers 
1 medium sweet onion 
1 (6 ounce) package baby bella mushrooms 
2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon garlic, minced 
DIRECTIONS 
Slice peppers in half lengthwise, remove ribs and seeds. 
Slice onions and mushrooms. Saute over medium heat with butter, olive oil, minced garlic and a little salt and pepper. Saute until onions and mushroom are nice and caramelized. About 25-30 minutes. 
Preheat oven to 400*. 
Slice roast beef into thin strips and add to the onion/mushroom mixture. Allow to cook 5-10 minutes. 
Line the inside of each pepper with a slice of provolone cheese. 
Fill each pepper with meat mixture until they are nearly overflowing. 
Top each pepper with another slice of provolone cheese. 
Bake for 15-20 minutes until the cheese on top is golden brown. 

START RECIPE

CREAM CHEESE PANCAKES 

Recipe by Kari2344 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 ounces cream cheese 
2 eggs 
1 g stevia powder (1 packet) 
1⁄2 teaspoon cinnamon (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
Put all ingredients in a blender or magic bullet. Blend until smooth. Let rest for 2 minutes so the bubbles can settle. Pour 1/4 of the batter into a hot pan greased with butter or pam spray. Cook for 2 minutes until golden, flip and cook 1 minute on the other side. Repeat with the rest of the batter. Serve with sugar free syrup (or any syrup of your choice) and fresh berries. A surprisingly satisfying substitute for the real thing. Tastes like skinny fried cheesecakes! Even if you aren't ing your carbs these are a delicious departure from the traditional doughy stack of pancakes. And you won't have the sleepy feeling that usually comes afterwards! 
 
START RECIPE

OFFEE-INFUSED STEAK 
Recipe by Dan Churchill 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 tablespoon coffee, ground 
1 tablespoon paprika 
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
good pinch salt 
6 tablespoons olive oil 
1 bone-in rib eye steak, 1 1/2-inches thick 
1 garlic clove 
2 tablespoons butter 
2 fresh thyme sprigs 
1 pinch pepper 
2 cups Brussels sprouts, halved 
3 sweet potatoes, peeled and cut into chips or wedges 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 390 degrees F. 
Spread out Brussel sprouts onto a baking tray, do the same for the sweet potatoes. Drizzle each with 2 Tbsp of olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Roast for 15-25 minutes or until golden (you can turn or shake ever 7 minutes to get even color). 
20 minutes prior to cooking bring your steak out of the fridge and cover all over with the coffee rub. Season both sides with salt and allow to come to room temperature. 
Add 2 Tbsp oil to a searing hot pan (preferably cast iron) and add your steak, it will be a seriously winning sizzle. Cook steak on each side for 45 seconds, add in your butter, garlic and thyme then turn every 15 seconds for a further 3-4 minutes basting the butter over the steak. 
If pan is oven proof pop in the oven, or transfer to a roasting tray, and cook for 5 minutes (Each steak is different, but for medium rare you want it to be soft but spring back once touched in the center). 
Remove from the oven and allow to rest for 6-8 minutes before slicing. 
Serve with your favorite sides (mine are Sweet Potato Fries and Roasted Balsamic. 
Brussels Sprouts). 

START RECIPE


SAVOURY PROTEIN PANCAKES 
Recipe by longstaffe_richard 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 cup oats 
1 cup low fat cottage cheese 
50 g feta cheese 
50 g sweet corn 
6 egg whites 
1⁄2 medium onion 
1⁄2 teaspoon black pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
Place the oats, cottage cheese, feta cheese, egg whites & black pepper in a blender and blend into a smooth batter. 
Finely chop the onion and drain the sweetcorn. 
Add the onion and sweetcorn to the batter mix and stir them inches. 
Spray a non-stick frying pan with oil, and heat the pan. 
Pour in desired amount of pancake batter into the pan and cook over a MEDIUM heat for 2-3 mins on each side. 

START RECIPE

 BACON, TOMATO & SPINACH PIZZA 
Recipe by JackieOhNo 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 (16 ounce) package frozen pizza dough, thawed 
1 cup alfredo sauce 
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach, thawed, squeezed dry 
2 plum tomatoes, thinly sliced 
4 slices cooked bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Coat a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray. Press dough onto pan. 
Spread Alfredo sauce over dough, leaving a half-inch border. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup cheese. Top with spinach, tomatoes, and bacon: sprinkle with remaining 1/2 cup cheese. 
Bake until heated through and cheese is melted and lightly browned, 15-18 minutes. 

START RECIPE


ENGLISH MUFFINS WITH BACON BUTTER 

Recipe by AZPARZYCH 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄2 cup butter, softened 
3⁄4 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
4 pieces bacon, cooked and crumbled 
4 -6 English muffins, split 
DIRECTIONS 
In a bowl combine butter and mustard: stir in bacon. 
Toast english muffins: spread with bacon butter. 
Refrigerate any leftover butter. 

START RECIPE


ARTICHOKE SPINACH LASAGNA 

Recipe by TishT 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 cooking spray 
9 uncooked lasagna noodles 
1 onion, chopped 
4 garlic cloves, chopped 
1 (14 1/2 ounce) can vegetable broth 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary 
1 (14 ounce) can marinated artichoke hearts, drained and chopped 
1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach, thawed, drained and squeezed dry 
1 (28 ounce) jar pasta sauce 
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided 
1 (4 ounce) package feta cheese with garlic and herbs, crumbled 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 
Spray a 9x13 inch baking dish with cooking spray. 
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. 
Add noodles and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente: drain. 
Spray a large skillet with cooking spray and heat on medium-high. 
Saute onion and garlic for 3 minutes, or until onion is tender-crisp. 
Stir in broth and rosemary: bring to a boil. 
Stir in artichoke hearts and spinach: reduce heat, cover and simmer 5 minutes. 
Stir in pasta sauce. 
Spread 1/4 of the artichoke mixture in the bottom of the prepared baking dish: top with 3 cooked noodles. 
Sprinkle 3/4 cup mozzarella cheese over noodles. 
Repeat layers 2 more times, ending with artichoke mixture and mozzarella cheese. 
Sprinkle crumbled feta on top. 
Bake, covered, for 40 minutes. 
Uncover, and bake 15 minutes more, or until hot and bubbly. 
Let stand 10 minutes before cutting. 
To freeze: Bake, cool, wrap well, and label. freeze up to 2 months. *Note: You can assemble and freeze without cooking and cook on the day to be eaten! 
To serve, defrost overnight and then bake until warmed through, or bake from frozen for 1 hour and a half. 
 
 
START RECIPE

BACON 'N' EGG LASAGNA 

Recipe by Tinkerbell 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 lb diced bacon 
1 large onion, chopped 
1⁄3 cup flour 
1⁄2-1 teaspoon salt 
1⁄4 teaspoon pepper 
4 cups milk 
12 lasagna noodles, cooked and drained 
12 hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
2 (8 ounce) cupsshredded swiss cheese 
1⁄3 cup grated parmesan cheese 
2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley 
DIRECTIONS 
In skillet, cook bacon until crisp. 
Remove with slotted spoon to paper towels. 
Drain, reserving 1/3 cup drippings. 
In the drippings, saute onion until tender. 
Stir in flour, salt and pepper until blended. 
Gradually stir in milk. 
Bring to boil and cook and stir for 2 minutes. 
Remove from heat. 
Spread 1/2 cup sauce in greased 13x9x2 baking dish. 
Layer with four noodles, a third of the egg and bacon, cheese and sauce. 
Repeat layers twice. 
Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. 
Bake uncovered at 350 degrees for 35-40 minutes or until bubbly. 
Sprinkle with parsley. 
Let stand 15 minutes before cutting. 
*Can be made the night before and refrigerated. 
To serve, remove from refrigerator 30 minutes before baking. 
Bake as above. 
 
 
START RECIPE

POLISH ANGEL WINGS-CHRUSCIKI 

Recipe by Bippie 
   
INGREDIENTS  
5 tablespoons cream 
5 egg yolks 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄4 cup sugar 
2 1⁄4 cups flour, plus 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
powdered sugar 
DIRECTIONS 
Beat eggs until thick. 
Add salt slowly while stirring. 
Add sugar and vanilla, beat well. 
Add cream and flour, alternating until blended. You may need more than the flour listed above depending on how humid it is that day. 
Turn onto a floured board. 
Cover with a cloth for 10 minutes. 
Knead until dough blisters. 
Roll very thin. 
Cut into 1 inch by 4 inch rectangles. 
Cut a gash in the middle of the rectangle and pull one end through so it looks like a twist. 
Fry in 375 degree oil until golden brown. 
Drain on a rack for 3 minutes then roll into powdered sugar. 

START RECIPE

ANYTIME CHEESY POTATOES 
Recipe by Crafty Lady 13 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 (2 lb) bag frozen hash brown potatoes, thawed 
1⁄2 cup butter, melted 
1 (10 1/2 ounce) can cheddar cheese or 1 (10 1/2 ounce) can cream of chicken soup 
1 (8 ounce) sour cream 
1⁄2 cup onion, chopped 
2 cups cheddar cheese, shredded 
1 teaspoon salt 
1⁄4 teaspoon pepper 
2 cups corn flakes or 2 cups French-fried onions, crushed 
1⁄4 cup butter, melted 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 
In a large bowl, combine hash browns, 1/2 cup melted butter, cheddar cheese soup, sour cream, chopped onion, cheddar cheese, salt and pepper. Place mixture in a 3 quart casserole dish. 
Mix crushed corn flakes and 1/4 cup melted butter together and sprinkle the mixture over the top of the casserole. 
Baked covered in preheated oven for 45 minutes. 
Can be made in crockpot. Cook on high for 3 - 4 hours or on low for 7 - 8 hours. 
 

START RECIPE

THE BEST EASY BEEF AND BROCCOLI STIR-FRY 

Recipe by Chris from Kansas 
   
INGREDIENTS  
3 tablespoons cornstarch, divided 
1⁄2 cup water, plus 
2 tablespoons water, divided 
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1 lb boneless round steak or 1 lb charcoal chuck steak, cut into thin 3-inch strips 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided 
4 cups broccoli florets 
1 small onion, cut into wedges 
1⁄3 cup reduced sodium soy sauce 
2 tablespoons brown sugar 
1 teaspoon ground ginger 
hot cooked rice 
DIRECTIONS 
In a bowl, combine 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 2 tablespoons water and garlic powder until smooth. 
Add beef and toss. 
In a large skillet or wok over medium high heat, stir-fry beef in 1 tablespoon oil until beef reaches desired doneness: remove and keep warm. 
Stir-fry broccoli and onion in remaining oil for 4-5 minutes. 
Return beef to pan. 
Combine soy sauce, brown sugar, ginger and remaining cornstarch and water until smooth: add to the pan. 
Cook and stir for 2 minutes. 
Serve over rice. 
 
START RECIPE


GOBI KI SABZI (DRY CAULIFLOWER CURRY) 

Recipe by Tea Girl 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 medium cauliflower 
2 tablespoons oil 
1⁄2 teaspoon cumin seed 
1 pinch asafoetida powder (be careful not too use too much!) 
2 medium chopped onions 
1⁄2 teaspoon ginger paste 
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic paste 
1 -2 teaspoon chili powder (depends on the heat level you like) 
1 teaspoon turmeric powder 
2 chopped tomatoes 
1 teaspoon salt 
1⁄4 cup chopped coriander leaves 
1⁄4 teaspoon garam masala 
DIRECTIONS 
Cut the cauliflower into bite-sized florets. 
Heat oil on medium high heat in a large pan or wok and add the cumin seeds. 
When they start to make a noise, add the asafoetida and stir for a few seconds. 
Add the chopped onions and saute till they turn clear. 
Put in the ginger and garlic pastes and fry till lightly golden. 
Add the chilli and turmeric powder and fry for a minute. 
Add the cauliflower, salt and tomatoes and mix well. 
Cover and cook till the cauliflower is done. 
Add the chopped coriander leaves and the garam masala and mix well. 
Taste and add salt if needed. 
Serve with freshly cooked rice. 

START RECIPE

DELICIOUS CHEESY BAKED POTATO & BACON SOUP 

Recipe by Kittencalrecipezazz 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2⁄3 cup butter 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh garlic 
2⁄3 cup flour 
4 cups milk 
3 cups half-and-half 
4 large baking potatoes, baked, cooled, peeled and cubed 
4 -6 green onions, chopped 
12 slices bacon, cooked and crumbled 
1 1⁄2 cups shredded cheddar cheese 
1 cup sour cream 
salt and pepper (I use seasoned salt) 
DIRECTIONS 
In a large soup pot melt butter over medium-high heat. 
Add in garlic: cook stirring for about 2 minutes. 
Add in flour then stir until smooth (about 1 minute). 
Gradually add milk and half and half stirring constantly until thickened and smooth. 
Add potatoes and onions: bring to a boil, stirring constantly. 
Reduce heat: simmer for 10 minutes. 
Add remaining ingredients: stir until cheese is melted. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE


DARK & SUMPTUOUS CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Recipe by Nigella Lawson 
   
INGREDIENTS  
FOR THE ICING 
60 ml cold water
75 g coconut butter (this is not the same as oil) 
50 g soft dark sugar 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons instant espresso powder 
1 1⁄2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa 
150 g bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped (min. 70% cocoa solids, see Intro) 
FOR THE CAKE 
all-purpose flour 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons baking soda 
1⁄2 teaspoon fine sea salt 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons instant espresso powder 
75 g unsweetened cocoa 
300 g soft dark brown sugar 
375 ml hot water, from a recently boiled kettle (1 1/2 cups) 
90 ml coconut oil 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons cider vinegar or 1 1⁄2 teaspoons white wine vinegar 
1 tablespoon edible rose petal 
1 tablespoon pistachios, chopped 
DIRECTIONS 
Equipment: 8-inch round springform cake tin. 
Start with the icing, though first preheat the oven to 180°C/350°F/gas mark 4 and pop in a baking sheet at the same time. Put all of the icing ingredients except the chopped chocolate into a heavy-based saucepan and bring to the boil, making sure everything’s dissolved. Then turn off the heat – but leave the pan on the hob – then quickly add the finely chopped chocolate and swirl the pan so that it is all underwater, so to speak. Leave for a scant minute, then whisk until you have a darkly glossy icing, and leave to cool. I find this takes exactly the amount of time the cake takes to make, cook and cool. But do give the icing a stir with a spatula every now and again. 
Line the bottom of your springform cake tin (you will need a good, leakproof one as this is a very wet batter) with baking parchment. 
Put the flour, bicarb, salt and instant espresso and unsweetened cocoa in a bowl and fork to mix. 
Mix together the sugar, water, coconut oil and vinegar until the coconut oil has melted, and stir into the dry ingredients, then pour into the prepared tin and bake for 35 minutes. Though do check at the 30-minute mark to see if it is already done. 
When it's ready, the cake will be coming away from the edges of the tin and a cake tester will come out clean, apart from a few crumbs. This is a fudgy cake and you don't want to overdo it. 
Once the cake is cooked, transfer the tin to a wire rack and let the cake cool in its tin. 
Turn to your icing, and give it a good stir with a spatula to check it is at the right consistency. It needs to be runny enough to cover the cake, but thick enough to stay (mostly) on the top. So pour over the unmoulded cake, and use a spatula to ease the icing to the edges, if needed. 
If you wish to decorate, now is the time to do it. In which case, sprinkle joyously with rose petals and chopped pistachios or anything else that your heart desires: otherwise, leave it gleaming darkly and, indeed, sumptuously. Leave to stand for 30 minutes for the icing to set before slicing into the cake. 
FREEZE NOTE: The cake can be made ahead and frozen, without icing. When cool, carefully wrap cake in a double layer of clingfilm and a layer of foil. Freeze for up to 3 months. To defrost, unwrap and place on a serving plate at room temperature for 3–4 hours. 

START RECIPE

GOOD, EASY TO MAKE HOMEMADE CHILI 

Recipe by Noodles 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 1⁄2-2 lbs ground beef (for vegetarians you can substitute tofu for the ground beef and it turns out good.) 
1 green pepper 
1 onion 
1 head garlic 
4 (14 1/2 ounce) cans diced tomatoes or 4 (14 1/2 ounce) cans crushed tomatoes 
2 (14 1/2 ounce) cans chili beans 
1⁄2 cup chili powder 
 teaspoon thyme 
1⁄16-1⁄8 teaspoon cayenne pepper (depending on desired spicyness. don't add much more than this it gets real hot) 
salt and pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
Brown meat (drain grease). 
Cut up vegetables. 
Put everything in a pot and boil on stove around 3 hours covered(crock pots also work, but I've found it doesn't turn out as good. It is always better heated up the next day). 
That's it. 
 
START RECIPE

INSTANT POT CHICKEN MARSALA 
Recipe by ChrisWebAdmin 
   
INGREDIENTS  
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, divided 
8 ounces button mushrooms, sliced (or cremini) 
2 garlic cloves, minced 
1 pinch kosher salt, to taste 
1 pinch black pepper, to taste 
1⁄2 cup marsala wine 
4 boneless chicken breasts, skinless 
1⁄2 cup chicken stock 
2 tablespoons parsley, chopped 
1 tablespoon cornstarch (mixed with 1 tablespoon water) 
DIRECTIONS 
Add the butter to the inner pot and heat on sauté. Once the butter has melted and the foam has subsided, add the mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally until browned and reduced, about five minutes. Stir in the garlic and the salt and pepper to taste. 
Add the marsala to the pot and cook, using a wooden spoon to scrape up the brown bits at the bottom of the pot. Press cancel to stop the cooking. 
Season the chicken with salt and pepper. Add the chicken in stock to the pot. 
Lock the lid. Cook on high pressure for eight minutes, then manually release the pressure. 
Transfer the chicken to a plate. Stir in the parsley and cornstarch mixture, and heat on sauté until slightly thickened, about 1 to 2 minutes. Serve sauce over the chicken. 
 

 START RECIPE

PINEAPPLE CASSEROLE 

Recipe by Diana Adcock 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 (20 ounce) cans crushed pineapple 
5 tablespoons flour 
1⁄2 cup white sugar 
1 cup grated sharp cheddar cheese 
1 1⁄2 cups Ritz cracker crumbs 
1⁄2 cup butter, plus 
1 teaspoon butter 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 
Grease a 2-quart casserole dish with 1 T. butter. 
Drain pineapple. 
Place crushed pineapple evenly along the bottom of prepared casserole dish. 
Mix together the flour, sugar and cheese. 
Sprinkle evenly on top of pineapple. 
Cover with Ritz cracker crumbs. 
Melt butter and pour over the top of cracker crumbs. 
Bake for 30 minutes in preheated oven. 

START RECIPE

PEANUT BUTTER NO BAKE COOKIES 

Recipe by Impera_Magna 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 cups sugar 
1⁄4 cup margarine 
1⁄2 cup milk 
1 cup peanut butter 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
3 cups rolled oats (old fashioned) 
DIRECTIONS 
In lg saucepan, mix sugar, margarine, and milk: bring to a full, rolling boil over med heat. (full, rolling boil = large bubbles rising to surface that can't be stirred down). 
Boil for one minute, stirring constantly. 
Remove from heat and stir in peanut butter and vanilla, stirring until peanut butter is melted: stir in oats. 
Working quickly, drop by spoonfuls onto waxed paper . Let cool completely. 

START RECIPE

CHICKEN PARMESAN 

Recipe by MizzNezz 
   
INGREDIENTS  
4 boneless skinless chicken breast halves 
salt and pepper 
1⁄2 cup Italian breadcrumbs 
1 egg, beaten 
4 tablespoons butter 
2 cups spaghetti sauce 
4 slices mozzarella cheese 
1 tablespoon grated parmesan cheese 
DIRECTIONS 
Pound chicken to flatten. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Dip chicken in egg: then in bread crumbs. 
Fry in butter in hot skillet, turning and browning for 10 minutes or until chicken is done. 
Remove from skillet. 
To skillet add spaghetti sauce. 
Heat thoroughly. 
Add chicken. 
Place slices of mozzarella on top of chicken. 
Sprinkle with parmesan. 
Cover and cook until cheese is melted. 
Serve with a side of spaghetti. 


START RECIPE

CALDO DE POLLO--MEXICAN CHICKEN STEW/SOUP 

Recipe by .. Ameera .. 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 large onion, chopped 
2 carrots, chopped 1/2-inch thick 
3 medium potatoes, chopped bite size 
1 1⁄2 cups chopped celery, chopped 1/4 inch thick 
1 (7 3/4 ounce) canof el pato brand salsa fresco salsa (or hot tomato sauce, the yellow can not the green!) 
6 -8 pieces chicken thighs or 6 -8 pieces chicken legs, skinless, bone-in 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
6 cups water 
1 teaspoon salt 
salt and pepper 
1 -1 1⁄2 bunch cilantro, chopped 
lemon wedges or lime wedge (to garnish) 
DIRECTIONS 
in one tablespoon olive oil, heat pot on high heat and sear the chicken pieces till brown on all sides. 
remove and transfer to a plate/bowl (you will add it back). 
sautee onions with the rest of the olive oil in that same pot till translucent. 
add all the veggies. 
add chicken, water, El Pato sauce, and 1 tsp salt. 
Bring to boil, cover, lower heat to medium and cover and let cook for 25 minutes. 
lower heat to medium-low and let cook for 35 more minutes--the chicken will be falling off the bone. :D yumm! 
taste and add more salt and then pepper as needed. 
then throw in the cilantro, give it a good stir, then cover again and let it simmer for about 2 minutes. 
ladle in a bowl just like that or over Mexican rice and garnish with lemon or lime wedges so your guests can squeeze it inches. 


START RECIPE

MAPLE BACON COOKIE DOUGH TRUFFLES 

Recipe by GoodnPlentiful 
   

INGREDIENTS  
1⁄2 cup butter, softened to room temperature 
3⁄4 cup packed brown sugar 
1 (14 ounce) can condensed milk 
 tablespoon maple syrup 
2 cups flour 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄2 cup candied bacon, chopped 
1 lb dark dipping chocolate 
DIRECTIONS 
Great recipe for bacon candy! http://www.food.com/recipe/brown-sugar-bacon-candy-326739. 
Prepare a baking sheet by lining it with parchment or wax paper. 
Using a large standing mixer, cream the butter and the sugar together until light and fluffy. 
Add the condensed milk and maple syrup and beat until well-mixed, then add the flour and salt and beat on low until combined. Stir in bacon. 
Using a small scoop or a teaspoon, scoop up small round balls of the dough and place them on the prepared baking sheet. Refrigerate for one hour. Remove from fridge and roll into balls. Place back in fridge for another hour. 
Melt chocolate in double boiler, in the microwave or, as I prefer, in a Crock Pot on low. Dip balls one at a time and coat evenly. [I tried dumping a bunch in the Crock Pot at once but they get soft fast. Alternatively, you could put the balls in the freezer for a few minutes before dipping first so they get good and cold.] Remove them with a fork and tap against the side of the pot to remove any excess chocolate. Place back on baking sheet and top with a piece of candied bacon, if desired. 
Put truffles back in fridge until firm. Store in fridge. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE

BEST EVER TUNA NOODLE CASSEROLE 

Recipe by Bread n Butter 
   
INGREDIENTS  
10 1⁄2 ounces cream of chicken soup 
1⁄2 cup mayonnaise 
1⁄4 cup milk 
1⁄2 cup diced yellow onion 
1⁄2 cup diced celery 
6 ounces albacore tuna 
6 ounces cooked egg noodles 
1⁄4 cup shredded cheddar cheese 
salt and pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
Mix the cream of chicken, mayonnaise and milk together in a large bowl. 
Add the diced celery and onion. 
Fold in the tuna, followed by the cooked egg noodles and shredded cheddar cheese. 
Salt and pepper to your taste. 
Place in a casserole dish. Cook at 375 degrees for about 40-45 minutes, just until the top starts to brown. 


START RECIPE

HONEY GARLIC CHICKEN THIGHS 

Recipe by Lori Mama 
   
INGREDIENTS  
8 boneless skinless, chicken thighs 
1⁄4 cup flour 
1⁄4 cup honey 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 375. 
In a bowl with tight fitting lid, put the flour. 
Add chicken, in batches, and shake to coat. 
Shake off excess flour and place pieces in a greased 8x8 baking dish,. 
making sure not to lay them flat. 
They should have the same shape as they were in the package. 
In a small bowl, mix the honey, soy sauce, garlic and seasonings. 
Pour evenly over the chicken. 
Cover and bake 30 minutes. 
Uncover and bake an additional 15 minutes, basting occasionally with the sauce. 
Serve. 

START RECIPE

BACON APPLE PIE 

Recipe by Da Huz 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 cups apple pie filling (approx) 
1 pie crust 
1⁄8 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1⁄4 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 
10 -12 slices bacon (uncooked) 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
Mix apple pie filling, sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and lemon juice in a bowl and pour into pie crust (in a pie pan or tin). Smooth with a spatula. 
Create bacon weave on top of pie: Lay two strips across the pie so that they intersect in the middle and are at right angles. Turn the pie so that the lower strip points toward you. Continue adding more bacon to the left and the right, creating an alternating over-under pattern with the single strip that runs side-to-side. 
At this point, there should five or six strips of bacon pointing toward the front of the pie and one strip running side-to-side which weaves over and under the other five or six strips. 
Begin laying a strip of bacon next to the on running side-to-side. Start at one end and create an over-under pattern opposite the first one by lifting up alternating strips, laying this piece down, and replacing the strips you lifted. Continue on both sides until the pie is completely covered in a bacon lattice with an alternating over-under weave. 
Trim the ends that hang over the sides. Save these trimmings for use in recipes that call for diced bacon (you can freeze them). 
Bake 45-60 minutes, or until bacon is crispy and completely cooked. You may want to bake this over a baking sheet in case apple or bacon grease ooze over the sides. 
Cool for 10 minutes before serving. Serve with caramel praline, dulce de leche, or similar ice cream. If desired, you can cooked up the bacon trimmings and garnish the ice cream with them. 

START RECIPE

APRICOT ALMOND CAKE WITH ROSEWATER & CARDAMOM 

Recipe by Nigella Lawson 

INGREDIENTS  
150 g dried apricots 
250 ml cold water 
2 cardamom pods (cracked) 
200 g ground almonds 
50 g fine polenta (not instant) 
1 teaspoon baking powder (gluten-free if required) 
150 g caster sugar 
6 large eggs 
2 teaspoons lemon juice 
1 teaspoon rose water 
nonstick cooking spray or sunflower oil, for greasing 
TO DECORATE 
2 teaspoons rose petals or 2 teaspoons apricot  jam
1 teaspoon lemon juice 
2 1⁄2 teaspoons very finely chopped pistachios 

DIRECTIONS 
Equipment: 1 x 20cm/8-inch round springform cake tin. 
Put the dried apricots into a small saucepan, cover them with the cold water, and drop in the cracked cardamom pods with their fragrant seeds. Put on the heat, then bring to the boil and let it bubble for 10 minutes – don’t stray too far away from the pan, as by the end of the 10 minutes the pan will be just about out of water and you want to make sure it doesn’t actually run dry as the apricots will absorb more water as they cool. 
Take the pan off the heat, place on a cold, heatproof surface and let the apricots cool. Preheat the oven to 180°C/gas mark 4/350ºF. Grease the sides of your springform cake tin and line the bottom with baking parchment. 
Remove 5 of the dried apricots and tear each in half, then set aside for the time being. Discard the cardamom husks, leaving the seeds in the pan.
Pour and scrape out the sticky contents of the pan into the bowl of a food processor. Add the almond meal, polenta, baking powder, superfine sugar and eggs, and give a good long blitz to combine. 
Open the top of the processor, scrape down the batter, add 2 teaspoons of lemon juice and the rosewater, and blitz again, then scrape into the prepared tin and smooth with a spatula. Arrange the apricot halves around the circumference of the tin. 
Bake for 40 minutes, though if the cake is browning up a lot before it’s actually ready, you may want to cover loosely with foil at the 30-minute mark. When it’s ready, the cake will be coming away from the edges of the tin, the top will feel firm, and a cake tester will come out with just one or two damp crumbs on it. 
Remove the cake to a wire rack. If you’re using apricot jam to decorate, you may want to warm it a little first so that it’s easier to spread: rose petal jam is so lusciously soft-set, it shouldn’t need any help. Stir a teaspoon of lemon juice into the jam and brush over the top of the cake, then sprinkle with the chopped pistachios and leave the cake to cool in its tin before unspringing and removing to a plate. 
STORE NOTE: Store in an airtight container in a cool place for 5–7 days. In hot weather (or if the central heating’s on) keep in fridge.
FREEZE NOTE: The cake can be made ahead and frozen for up to 3 months (though the nuts may soften slightly on defrosting). Wrap the fully cooled cake (still on the springform tin base) tightly in a double layer of clingfilm and a layer of foil. To defrost, unwrap and leave it (still on the tin base) on a plate at room temperature for about 4 hours. 


START RECIPE


VEGGIE PACKED CHEESY CHICKEN SALAD (REDUCED FAT) 

Recipe by Sarah_Jayne 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 cup cooked boneless skinless chicken breast, cubed 
1⁄4 cup celery, finely chopped 
1⁄4 cup carrot, shaved into ribbons 
1⁄2 cup Baby Spinach, roughly chopped 
2 1⁄2 tablespoons fat-free mayonnaise 
2 tablespoons nonfat sour cream 
1⁄8 teaspoon dried parsley 
2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 
1⁄4 cup reduced-fat sharp cheddar cheese, shredded 
DIRECTIONS 
Mix all ingredients in a bowl so that everything is coated well with the mayonnaise mixture. 
Chill in the fridge for at least 30 minutes but you could do it the night before. 
Serve. 
  

 

 
 
 


START RECIPE


SNOW ICE CREAM (1950S METHOD) 

Recipe by Adrienne in Reister 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 quart milk 
1 egg 
1 cup sugar 
1⁄4 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
snow 
DIRECTIONS 
Make a custard out of milk, egg, sugar, salt, and vanilla. 
Remove from stove and let cool. 
Alternate between pouring snow and custard into the bowl until no more snow can be stirred into the mixture. 
Eat right away (before it melts on you!) or pour into ice cube trays. 
Lick bowl. 
Licking the bowl is a requirement. 
Nothing matters if you don't lick the bowl. 
*****Modern/Safer Method -- 1 cup milk or cream, 1/2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Mix all ingredients together. Add snow until no more can be added. Either eat immediately or freeze. This melts very quickly and is not as creamy as the old method but still good. 
  
 

 




START RECIPE

CHICKEN CACCIATORE 

Recipe by Mainely Debbie 
   
INGREDIENTS  
flour, to coat chicken 
2 whole chickens, each cut into 8 pieces with the breasts cut into 1/3 's 
3⁄4 cup olive oil 
6 garlic cloves, peeled and halved 
10 -12 ounces white mushrooms, sliced 
1 large onion, peeled and sliced 
2 green bell peppers, cored, seeded, and sliced into 1/2-inch strips 
2 red bell peppers, cored, seeded, and sliced into 1/2-inch strips 
1 cup dry white wine 
1 (15 1/2 ounce) can chicken broth 
1 (28 ounce) can whole tomatoes, with their juice, crushed 
1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 
kosher salt 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
2 -3 tablespoons tomato paste 
6 leaves fresh basil, chopped 
DIRECTIONS 
Place the flour in a shallow dish and coat the chicken pieces, shaking off any excess. Heat the oil in a large saucepot over medium-high heat. 
Add the chicken in batches and fry until golden brown on all sides. When all the chicken has been cooked, set it aside. 
Add the garlic to the pan and cook until it turns golden brown. Add the mushrooms and saute for 5 to 7 minutes, until they release most of their liquid. Add the onion and bell peppers and saute until the vegetables are soft, approximately 6 minutes. 
Add the wine and let reduce for about 1 minute. Add the chicken broth, tomatoes, crushed red pepper, salt oregano and tomato paste. Return the chicken to the pot and bring the liquid to a boil, stirring constantly. Turn down the heat and simmer for 30 to 45 minutes. Stir in the fresh basil just before serving. 
This dish goes well with any pasta or rice and tastes even better the following day. 
  

 

 
 


START RECIPE

TUNA CASSEROLE 

Recipe by Tara1183 
   
INGREDIENTS  
8 ounces egg noodles 
1 (10 1/4 ounce) can cream of celery soup 
1⁄2 cup mayonnaise 
⁄4 cup evaporated milk 
1 cup grated cheddar cheese, divided 
1⁄2 cup finely chopped celery 
1⁄2 small onion, finely chopped 
4 ounces mushrooms, drained (optional) 
1 teaspoon black pepper 
1 (7 ounce) can tuna, with juice 
DIRECTIONS 
Cook egg noodles to al dente in boiling salted water: drain well. 
Preheat oven to 325°F. 
Mix all ingredients together in a large casserole dish, reserving 1/2 cup of cheese. 
Sprinkle reserved cheese over the top. 
Bake for 30 minutes. 
Serve hot. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

DECADENT BUTTERFINGER CAKE 

Recipe by Recipe USA 
   
INGREDIENTS  
18 1⁄4 ounces German chocolate cake mix (box) 
1 cup water 
1⁄3 cup vegetable oil 
3 eggs 
5 butterfinger candy bars 
1 (8 ounce) jar caramel ice cream topping 
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk (Eagle Brand) 
Cool Whip 
chocolate syrup 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Bake the cake according to package directions in a 13 x 9 inch pan. When it's done, and while it's still hot, punch holes in the cake and pour the sweetened condensed milk over the top making sure some of it sinks in the holes. 
2. Do the same with the caramel ice cream topping. Sprinkle on some of the broken candy pieces. When it's cool, spread the Cool Whip topping on the top, and then sprinkle the rest of the broken bars. Then drizzle more caramel all over and then drizzle chocolate syrup all over in zig zags. 
3. Hint! Put all your candy bars in the freezer. When you're ready to use them, take them from the freezer. 
4. Leave the wrappers on and take a mallet or a hammer and smash them inside the wrappers. Keep cool until you need them. 
5. Enjoy! 
6. The cook and prep times are approximate and will vary with the size cake pan you use, as well as your oven. 
  

 

 
 


START RECIPE

BREAKFAST BARS 2.0 

Recipe by Nigella Lawson 

INGREDIENTS  
250 g medjool dates 
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
325 ml cold water 
75 g goji berries 
75 g pumpkin seeds 
150 g brown flax seeds 
50 g cocoa nibs 
25 g chia seeds 
25 g corn flakes (gluten-free if required) 
100 g organic porridge oats (not instant) 

DIRECTIONS 
Equipment: 8-inch square baking tin. 
Preheat the oven to 180ºC/gas mark 4 or 350ºF, and line the bottom and sides of your tin with baking parchment. Pit the dates and tear them with your fingers into a small saucepan, add the cinnamon, cover with the water, bring to the boil and let bubble for 5 minutes. Turn off the heat, and beat with a fork until you have a rough purée. 
Put all the remaining ingredients into a large bowl, add the date mixture and mix until everything is combined. I wear a pair of disposable vinyl gloves for this. 
Squodge into your prepared tin and bake in the oven for 30 minutes, until firm and set, and golden on top and darker around the edges. Leave to cool in the tin before cutting into pieces. 
STORE NOTE: Store in an airtight container in a cool place or in fridge for up to 1 week. 
FREEZE NOTE: Wrap bars individually in clingfilm or foil and put in a resealable bag, or stack bars in an airtight container with baking parchment in between the layers. Freeze for up to 2 months. To defrost, put bars on a wire rack and leave at room temperature for about 2 hours. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

CHOCOLATE ICEBOX PIE 

Recipe by Lvs2Cook 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2⁄3 cup milk 
3⁄4 cup semisweet chocolate morsel 
1⁄4 cup cold water 
2 tablespoons cornstarch 
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 
3 large eggs, beaten 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
3 tablespoons butter 
1 (6 ounce) ready-made chocolate crumb crusts 
1 cup whipping cream 
1⁄4 cup sugar 
1⁄2 cup chopped pecans, toasted 
1 (1 5/8 ounce) milk chocolate candy bars, chopped 
DIRECTIONS 
Heat milk in a 3 quart saucepan over medium heat until it begins to bubble around the edges (DO NOT BOIL). 
Remove from heat and whisk in the chocolate morsels until melted. 
Cool slightly. 
tir together cold water and cornstarch until dissolved. 
Whisk cornstarch mixture, sweetened condensed milk, eggs, and vanilla into chocolate mixture. Bring to a boil over medium heat, whisking constantly. Boil 1 minute or until mixture thickens and is smooth. Be careful not to overcook. 
Remove from heat and whisk in butter. 
Spoon mixture into pie crust. 
Cover and chill at least 8 hours. 
Beat whipping cream at high speed with a mixer until foamy. Gradually add sugar and beat until soft peaks form. 
Spread whipped cream evenly over pie filling. 
Sprinkle with pecans and candy bar pieces. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

WHITE CHICKEN CHILI 

Recipe by Renita 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 lb boneless skinless chicken breast, cut into 1/2 inch cubes 
1 medium onion 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons garlic powder 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
2 (15 1/2 ounce) cans great northern beans, rinsed and drained 
1 (14 1/2 ounce) can chicken broth 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon oregano 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper 
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1 cup sour cream 
1⁄2 cup whipping cream 
2 (4 ounce) cans diced green chilies 
DIRECTIONS 
In large saucepan, saute chicken, onion and garlic poweder in oil til chicken is no longer pink. 
Add beans, chilies and seasonings and chicken broth. 
Bring to a boil. 
Reduce heat and simmer (uncovered) for 30 minutes. 
Remove from heat, stir in sour cream and whipping cream. 
Serve immediately. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE


BACON RANCH DIP 

Recipe by MsSally 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 (1 ounce) package ranch dressing mix 
16 ounces sour cream 
1⁄2 cup bacon bits (i prefer the hormel brand) 
1 cup cheddar cheese (shredded) 
DIRECTIONS 
Mix all ingredients and enjoy. 
Note as usual with dips this is better made ahead so the flavors can marry. 
  

 

 
 


START RECIPE

MOUNTAIN DEW JELLY 

Recipe by NovaLee 
   
INGREDIENTS  
3 1⁄4 cups Mountain Dew soda 
2 tablespoons lemon juice 
4 1⁄2 cups sugar 
1 package sure jell pectin 
DIRECTIONS 
Pour mountian dew and lemon juice into a large pot. 
Bring to boil. 
Boil 3 minutes. 
Cool slightly. 
Then follow the sure jell directions. 
Process for 10 minutes in a boiling water bath. 
you can use more mountain dew and reduce it to 3-1/4 c. 
for a more concentrated flavor. 
  

 


START RECIPE


SNOW CREAM IN A BLENDER 

Recipe by MorganLee 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 cups milk 
1⁄2-3⁄4 cup sugar (depending on how sweet you like it) 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
full tray ice cube 
DIRECTIONS 
Pour milk into blender and add all remaining ingredients. 
Blend on high until all ice chunks are gone. 
Pour into glasses and enjoy!   

 


 
 


START RECIPE


EASY STIR FRY SAUCE 

Recipe by Winnipeg Mel 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 -3 tablespoons cornstarch 
1⁄4 cup brown sugar, packed 
1⁄4 teaspoon ground ginger (or a bit of fresh minced ginger) 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1⁄2 cup soy sauce or 1⁄2 cup tamari soy sauce 
1⁄4 cup cider vinegar or 1⁄4 cup white vinegar 
1⁄2 cup water 
1 1⁄2 cups vegetable broth or 1 1⁄2 cups beef broth or 1 1⁄2 cups chicken broth (I use chicken broth if my stir fry will have chicken, etc.) 
DIRECTIONS 
Combine all ingredients in a large glass jar with a lid. 
Screw lid on. 
Shake well. 
Can store in fridge up to 2 weeks. 
Shake well before using. 
To use sauce: stir fry your vegetables and meat as desired, add appropriate amount of sauce, bring to a boil, boil for 1 minute or until slightly thickened. 
Serve. 
  

 


START RECIPE


LOS BARRIOS CALDO DE RES (BEEF SOUP) 

Recipe by Miss Annie 
   
INGREDIENTS  
5 lbs stew beef bones 
salt, to taste 
garlic powder, to taste 
4 ears corn, husked an cut in half 
6 celery ribs, cut into 1/2-inch pieces 
3 carrots, peeled and cut into 1-inch pieces 
4 potatoes, peeled and cut into 2-inch chunks 
3 tomatoes, cut into wedges 
3 zucchini, cut into 2-inch chunks 
2 onions, cut into 6 wedges 
1⁄2 head cabbage, cut into quarters 
1 green bell pepper, sliced 
6 cups rice, Spanish rice, cooked and hot 
1 lemon, cut into 6 wedges 
DIRECTIONS 
Place bones in large stockpot, add water to cover by 6 inches. 
Bring to boil, reduce heat and boil gently for 45 minutes. 
Stir in salt, garlic powder. Then add corn, celery and carrots. Boil another 15 minutes. 
Add potatoes, tomatoes, zucchini, onion, cabbage, and bell pepper. Boil for 15 minutes longer. 
Ladle soup into 6 large bowls. 
Add 1 cup rice to each bowl. 
Squeeze juice from a lomon wedge over each bowl. 
Serve immediately as a main course. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE


SIMPLE BAKED CHICKEN DRUMSTICKS 

Recipe by ND_Dawn 
   
INGREDIENTS  
9 -12 chicken drumsticks 
garlic powder 
pepper 
salt 
olive oil 
rosemary (optional) 
parsley 
DIRECTIONS 
Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9x13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 
Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 
Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. Sprinkle lightly with salt. Add rosemary to the chicken, if desired. 
Bake at 375° F for half an hour. Turn drumsticks over and add more garlic powder, pepper and salt (same as before). Top with the parsley. 
Bake another half an hour, or until cooked until 160°F. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


BUFFALO CHICKEN CHEESE BALLS WITH BLUE CHEESE DIP 

Recipe by Scoutie 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 store-bought rotisserie-cooked chicken 
1⁄4 cup hot sauce (recommended Frank's Red Hot) 
1 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1 3⁄4 cups sharp cheddar cheese, grated 
1⁄2 cup thinly sliced green onion, green tops as w ell
1 cup all-purpose flour 
3 eggs, lightly beaten 
2 cups panko breadcrumbs 
vegetable oil, for frying 
1 1⁄2 cups mayonnaise 
1⁄2 cup packed blue cheese, crumbled 
1⁄2 teaspoon hot sauce 
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄2lemon, juiced 
1 teaspoon minced garlic 
DIRECTIONS 
Have oil heated to 350 degrees F. 
Pick the meat from the chicken and discard the skin, then dice.Place the chicken in a large bowl and add the hot sauce, pepper, cheese, and green onions, and toss to combine. Roll the chicken into 2-ounce balls, about the size of a golf ball. 
Place the flour, eggs, and Panko crumbs in 3 separate bowls. Roll each ball in the flour, then the egg and then the bread crumbs. Set aside.
When the oil is hot fry the chicken balls in batches. Cook for about 2 minutes per batch. Drain on paper towels. 
To make the dip, combine all ingredients in a large bowl and adjust the seasoning if necessary. Serve the chicken alongside the dipping sauce. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE


VINEGAR & SALT FRENCH FRIES 

Recipe by lets.eat 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 1⁄4 lbs baking potatoes, peeled (about 2) 
3 cups water 
2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar, plus 
2 teaspoons distilled white vinegar, divided 
1 tablespoon canola oil 
salt 
DIRECTIONS 
Cut potatoes lengthwise into 1/4 inch slices, then into matchsticks. 
Combine water and 2 tablespoons vinegar in a large bowl. 
Completely submerge potatoes in vinegar mixture. 
Soak for 30 minutes. 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees (Or deep fry). 
Drain potatoes on paper towels. 
Transfer to a clean dry bowl. 
Toss with canola oil. 
Arrange potatoes on heavy gauge nonstick baking sheet in single layer. 
Bake for 20 minutes, or until potatoes just begin to brown. 
Turn and bake for 10 minutes, or until browned and crisp. 
Toss with 2 teaspoons vinegar and salt to taste. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE

EASY GARLIC CHICKEN 

Recipe by ElleFirebrand 
   
INGREDIENTS  
4 boneless skinless chicken breasts 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
4 tablespoons brown sugar 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
additional herbs and spices, as desired 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 450°F Line a baking dish or cookie sheet with aluminum foil and lightly coat with cooking spray or lightly brush with oil. 
In small sauté pan, sauté garlic with the oil until tender. 
Remove from heat and stir in brown sugar. Add additional herbs and spices as desired. 
Season chicken with salt and pepper. .Place breasts in a prepared baking dish and cover with the garlic and brown sugar mixture. 
Bake uncovered for 15-30 minutes, or until juices run clear. Cooking time will depend on the size and thickness of your chicken. 
   
 
 START RECIPE

 CROCK POT CREAM CHEESE RANCH CHICKEN 

Recipe by Stacky5 
   
INGREDIENTS  
4 boneless skinless chicken breasts 
2 tablespoons butter, melted 
1 (10 3/4 ounce) can cream of chicken soup 
8 ounces cream cheese, cubed 
1⁄2 cup chicken broth 
1 (1 ounce) package hidden valley ranch dressing mix 
1⁄4 teaspoon minced garlic 
1 dash paprika 
1⁄8 teaspoon dried oregano 
1⁄4 teaspoon dried parsley flakes 
DIRECTIONS 
Wash and dry chicken breasts and place them evenly in crock pot. Sprinkle with paprika. 
Sprinkle pkg. of Hidden Valley Ranch salad dressing mix over chicken. 
Drizzle chicken breasts with 1 tablespoons melted butter. 
Cover and cook on Low for 4 hours. 
Melt remaining 1 tablespoon butter in a medium saucepan along with minced garlic and saute slightly. 
Add cream of chicken soup, the 8 oz. of cream cheese cubes, 1/2 cup chicken broth, dried Oregano and dried Parsley flakes. Stir on medium heat until smooth. 
Add mixture to crock pot, cover again and continue to cook on low for 1 1/2 hours to 2 hours. 
Serve over buttered egg noddles. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


CHEESY TACO POCKETS 

Recipe by Mamas Kitchen Hope 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 (17 1/3 ounce) packages puff pastry sheets, 2 sheets per package 
1 egg 
1⁄2 tablespoon water 
1 1⁄2 lbs ground beef 
1⁄2 cup green pepper, chopped 
1⁄2 cup white onion, chopped 
1 garlic clove, minced 
1 medium tomatoes, seeded and chopped 
1⁄2 cup catsup 
1⁄4 cup fresh cilantro or 1⁄4 cup parsley, chopped 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
2 teaspoons chili powder 
1 teaspoon oregano 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 1⁄2 cups monterey jack cheese, shredded or 1 1⁄2 cups monterey jack pepper cheese, shredded for a spicier result or 1 1⁄2 cups colby cheese, shredded, any similar cheese will work 
DIRECTIONS 
Remove pastry from freezer and allow to thaw at room temperature for about 30- 40 minutes or until they are easy to handle. 
Meanwhile, add the beef, onion and green pepper to a large skillet and cook until beef is browned and vegetables begin to soften. Stir occasionally to break meat up and prevent scorching. 
Add garlic and cook for one more minute, stirring constantly. 
Drain all the grease from the pan and return to the heat. 
Add tomato, catsup, cilantro or parsley, cumin, chili powder, oregano and cinnamon. Reduce heat to low and allow to simmer for about 10 minutes. You want a pretty dry mixture so your filling stays put in the pastry. 
Remove from the heat. Stir in the cheese and set aside until cool enough to handle. 
Work with one pastry sheet at a time, keeping the others covered so they do not dry out. 
On a lightly floured surface roll out a pastry sheet to a rectangle about 16 x 12 inches and then cut into 8 even pieces. 
Put a heaping teaspoonful of meat mixture in the center of the pastry. (I always seem to over fill them no matter how carefully I measure so you may want to start with less than you think you should use and add a little more if needed. Voice of experience! ). 
Mix the egg and water together and brush pastry edges with it. 
Grab one corner of a pastry and fold over to form a triangle. Press edges with a fork to seal and brush the tops with more egg mixture. 
Repeat until all ingredients are used. 
Place the pastries on a sprayed or greased baking sheet. You could also use parchment paper or a silicone liner. 
Bake at 375 degrees for about 15-17 minutes or until golden brown. 
OAMC-To Freeze and Bake Later: Place pockets on parchment paper or wax paper and freeze until firm. They can then be transferred to a zip top bag and stored in the freezer. Remove desired amount from freezer when ready to use and bake as directed, increasing time to 17-20 minutes or until golden brown. 
Great served with sour cream, catsup or your favorite dip. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


CITRUS POACHED SALMON 

Recipe by Rita1652 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 1⁄2 lbs salmon fillets 
1 quart chicken stock 
1⁄2 quart orange juice 
1⁄2 quart grapefruit juice 
2 cups white wine 
1 small yellow onion, chopped 
1 small carrot, chopped 
2 kaffir lime leaves, sliced 
2 tablespoons minced garlic 
1 -2 cup chopped lemongrass (tender white part only) 
1 teaspoon salt or 1 tablespoon Thai fish sauce 
1 teaspoon white pepper 
1 oranges, zest of or 1 grapefruits or 1 lemons or 1 lime, for garnish 
DIRECTIONS 
In a large pot, combine chicken stock, orange juice, grapefruit juice, white wine, onion, carrots, kaffir lime leaves, garlic and lemon grass. 
Season with salt and white pepper. 
Bring to a boil for 5-10 minutes.This is to reduce so the liquid has more flavor and to soften the veggies. 
Reduce heat to a very low simmer. 
Place the salmon (skin side down) in the poaching liquid until flaky and tender, about 5-10 minutes. 
Serve as is garnished with fruit. Or chill place on a bed of greens garnished with fruit slices. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE


PERFECT BASIC WHITE RICE 

Recipe by Mamas Kitchen Hope 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 cup long grain rice 
2 cups water 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon butter (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
In a saucepan with a good fitting lid bring water, salt and butter if desired to a boil. 
Add rice and stir. 
Cover and reduce heat to medium low. You will know that your temperature is correct if a little steam is visible leaking from the lid. A lot of steam means your heat is too high. 
Cook for 20 minutes. 
DO NOT LIFT LID! 
The steam that is trapped inside the pan is what allows the rice to cook properly. 
Remove from heat and fluff with fork. 
Serve! 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE


CALDO DE POLLO (MEXICAN CHICKEN SOUP) 

Recipe by Brisket in Roses 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 lbs chicken, bone in, I usually use drumsticks 
1 large onion, cut in eights 
1 small green cabbage, cut in eights 
3 garlic cloves, minced 
2 chayotes, peeled and cut in chunks 
16 ounces frozen corn on the cob, nibblers (6 ct) 
2 medium carrots, cut in chunks 
3 large potatoes, cut in chunks 
3 celery ribs, cut in chunks 
2 bay leaves 
2 -3 quarts water (must cover the chicken) 
salt and pepper 
cilantro, roughly chopped for garnish 
lime, cut into wedges 
onion, diced for garnish 
DIRECTIONS 
Rinse and dry chicken and place in stockpot. Add the corn on the cob nibblers with the chicken. Cover with water and season with salt. 
Add onion, bay leaves and garlic and let simmer for about 20 minutes (longer if using bigger pieces of chicken). 
Add the carrots, celery ribs, chayote, and potatoes and cook until vegetables are near tender. 
Add the cabbage, add more salt if needed and add pepper. Let simmer for about 5-10 minutes until cabbage is tender. 
Serve and garnish with cilantro, diced onion, and lime wedges. Adjust to taste with lime wedges. 
  
 
 

START RECIPE


OLD-FASHIONED PAN-FRIED PORK CHOPS 

Recipe by Alan in SW Florida 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 teaspoon garlic powder 
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper 
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper (ground red pepper) 
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour 
4 bone-in-rib pork chops (chops between 3/4 and 1 inch are best for this recipe) or 4 center-cut pork chops, about 3/4-inch thick (chops between 3/4 and 1 inch are best for this recipe) 
3 slices bacon, chopped 
1⁄2 cup vegetable oil 
DIRECTIONS 
Combine the garlic powder, paprika, salt, pepper, and cayenne in a bowl. Place the flour in a shallow dish. Pat the chops dry with paper towels. Cut 2 slits about 2 inches apart through the fat on the edges of each chop (Since pork chops have a tendency to curl when cooked at high heat, cutting the slits will prevent this from happening). Season both sides of the chops with the spice mixture, then dredge the chops lightly in the flour (do NOT discard the flour). Transfer to a plate and let rest for 10 minutes. 
Meanwhile, cook the chopped bacon in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat until the fat renders and the bacon is crisp, about 8 minutes. using a slotted spoon, transfer the bacon to a paper towel-lined plate and reserve for another use. (if having baked potatoes with the pork chops, serve with sour cream, chopped chives, and sprinkle on the cooked, chopped bacon -- YUM!) Do NOT wipe out the pan! 
Add the oil to the fat in the pan and heat over medium-high heat until just smoking. Return the chops to the flour dish and turn to coat. Cook the chops until well browned, 3 to 4 minutes per side. 
Serve and enjoy! 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


AUTHENTIC NO REFRIGERATION BAKERY FROSTING/ICING 

Recipe by Kittencalrecipezazz 
   

INGREDIENTS  
2 cups shortening 
1⁄2 cup non-dairy powdered coffee creamer (such as Coffee Mate) 
1⁄2 teaspoon almond extract (can use more to taste) 
1⁄4-1⁄2 teaspoon vanilla 
1 (32 ounce) package confectioners' sugar, sifted 
1⁄2-3⁄4 cup water 
food coloring, use color of choice 
DIRECTIONS 
In a large mixing bowl beat the shortening creamer and extracts. 
Gradually beat in the confectioners sugar. 
Add in enough water (starting with almost 1/2 cup) until frosting reaches desired consistency. 
Add in food coloring until the desired shade is achieved. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

LOBSTER NEWBURG 

Recipe by mielhollinger 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 teaspoons butter 
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 
1⁄4 teaspoon salt 
1 1⁄2 cups milk 
2 beaten egg yolks 
8 ounces cubed, cooked lobsters 
1 tablespoon dry sherry 
1⁄8 teaspoon white pepper or 1⁄8 teaspoon black pepper 
1 dash ground red pepper 
2 English muffins, split and toasted 
snipped fresh chives (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
In a medium saucepan, melt butter. 
Stir in flour and salt. 
Add the milk all at once. 
Cook and stir until thickened and bubbly. 
Cook and stir 1 more minute. 
Stir about half the hot mixture into the beaten egg yolks. 
Return all to saucepan. 
Cook and stir until mixture is thickened and bubbly. 
Stir in lobster, dry sherry, white or black pepper, and ground red pepper. 
Heat through. 
Serve over English muffin halves. 
If desired, garnish with snipped chives. 
  
 
 
 
 

START RECIPE


MILKY WAY FUDGE 

Recipe by Coffee lover 
   

INGREDIENTS  
3 regular-size Milky Way bars 
1 (12 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 
12 ounces milk chocolate chips 
nuts (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
Melt candy bars and milk in microwave for 3 to 3 1/2 minutes. 
Stir in chocolate chips and nuts. 
Pour into buttered 8-inch square pan. 
Cools quickly. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

OLIVE GARDEN GARLIC ALFREDO SAUCE 

Recipe by Diana Adcock 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄2 cup butter 
2 tablespoons cream cheese 
1 pint heavy cream 
1 -2 teaspoon garlic powder (start with 1 and taste) 
salt & freshly ground black pepper 
2⁄3 cup fresh grated parmesan cheese or 2⁄3 cup romano cheese 
DIRECTIONS 
In a medium to large saucepan melt the butter over medium heat. 
Add the cream cheese and whisk to smooth and melted. 
Whisk in the heavy cream. 
Season with the garlic powder, salt and pepper. 
Bring to a good simmer and whisk frequently until sauce thickens, around 25 minutes. 
Remove from heat and stir in cheese. 
Taste and adjust seasoning's. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE


MAN DIP 

Recipe by ratherbeswimmin 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 lb bulk sausage 
1 lb lean ground beef 
1 large onion, chopped 
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic salt (I substitute 3-4 garlic cloves, cook in the skillet with the meats and onion) 
pepper 
2 lbs shredded Velveeta cheese 
2 (10 1/2 ounce) cans cream of mushroom soup 
1 -2 jalapeno pepper, chopped (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
In a large skillet over medium heat, cook sausage, ground beef, and onion (and garlic) until meats are browned and onion is tender: drain off fat. 
Add remaining ingredients: cook over medium heat until cheese is melted and mixture is heated through. 
Serve warm with corn or tortilla chips.   
 
 
 


START RECIPE


PIZZADILLA -- WEIGHT ERS 

Recipe by Joane1464 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 whole wheat tortilla 
pizza sauce 
2⁄3 cup fat free mozzarella cheese or 2⁄3 cup part-skim mozzarella cheese 
6 slices turkey pepperoni 
vegetables (I like to use peppers and onions) 
DIRECTIONS 
Place tortilla on skillet and turn heat between low and medium. 
spread out sauce over tortilla. 
add chopped vegetables. 
spread out cheese over tortilla. 
add pepperoni. 
once the cheese starts to melt fold in half. 
keep on skillet until cheese is melted throughout. 
you may have to flip/adjust heat so that it doesn't burn. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

ROASTED GARLIC ASIAGO DIP 

Recipe by ratherbebaking 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 head garlic 
16 ounces cream cheese 
2 cups shredded asiago cheese 
1⁄3 cup heavy cream 
1⁄2 cup sour cream 
1⁄4 cup parsley, chopped 
1⁄2 cup mozzarella cheese, shredded 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 400. 
Cut the garlic head in half along theequator (with root and stem ends representing the poles). 
Place the garlic, cut side down on a foil lined baking sheet and roast uncovered 40 to 45 minutes or until tender. 
(or use your favorite roasting instructions) To remove the garlic, turn heads upside down and gently squeeze the garlic out of the skins. 
Reduce oven temp to 350. 
With a food processor or electric mixer, blend cream cheese, Asiago cheese, heavy cream, sour cream and parsley until well-blended add garlic and blend again. 
Place mixture into a casserole or baking dish and top with shredded mozzarella. 
Bake about 20 minutes until bubbly and golden brown on top. 
Serve with firm crusty bread, crackers or other dippers of your choice. 
I have added artichoke hearts to the dip for a nice change. 
Update: I have been replacing the heavy cream with sour cream (I have been using a total of 1 cup) and it comes out fine. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

BEER BATTERED FISH 

Recipe by Chef Sunshine 
   
INGREDIENTS  
2 quarts vegetable oil (for frying) 
8 (4 ounce) cod fish fillets 
salt and pepper 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
2 tablespoons garlic powder 
2 tablespoons paprika 
2 teaspoons salt 
2 teaspoons ground black pepper 
1 egg, beaten 
1 (12 ounce) bottle beer 
DIRECTIONS 
Heat oil in a deep fryer to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C). 
Rinse fish, pat dry, and season with salt and pepper. 
Combine flour, garlic powder, paprika, 2 teaspoons salt, and 2 teaspoons pepper. Stir egg into dry ingredients. 
Gradually mix in one beer until a thin batter is formed. 
You should be able to see the fish through the batter after it has been dipped. 
Dip fish fillets into the batter, then drop one at a time into hot oil. 
Fry fish, turning once, until both sides are golden brown. 
Drain on paper towels, and serve warm. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

LEBANESE BEEF AND EGGPLANT STEW (MASBAHET ED DARWEESH) 

Recipe by lecole54 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄4 cup butter 
2 medium onions, chopped 
2 garlic cloves, chopped 
1 lb beef, cubed 
1 large eggplant, cubed 
1 large potato, sliced 
1 (15 ounce) can tomatoes, chopped 
2 teaspoons salt 
1 teaspoon pepper 
1 teaspoon oregano 
1⁄2 teaspoon aleppo pepper 
1⁄2 teaspoon sumac 
2 cups beef broth 
DIRECTIONS 
Sauté onions, garlic, meat, eggplant, potato and tomatoes in butter for 5 minutes. 
Add salt, pepper, oregano, cumin, Aleppo pepper, and sumac. 
Cover with broth and simmer for 1 hour. Most of the liquid should be evaporated: if not boil until it is. 
Serve over rice. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE

ZESTY KALE AND SWEET POTATO BOWL 

Recipe by WKernan 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 lb diced peeled sweet potato 
1 teaspoon chili powder 
3 tablespoons broth or 3 tablespoons wine
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper 
1 red bell pepper, quartered 
1⁄2 cup roasted almonds, chopped 
2 teaspoons grated lime rind 
1⁄2 teaspoon sugar 
2 tablespoons lime juice
1 tablespoon cilantro 
2 cups cooked quinoa 
4 cups kale, chopped 
1 avocado 
4 lime wedges 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven 400. 
Combine sweet potatoes, 1 1/2 teaspoons broth, 1/2 teaspoon chili powder, 1/8 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon black pepper in a bowl: toss. Arrange sweet potato mixture on one side of an aluminum foil–lined baking sheet. Place bell pepper on other side of pan: drizzle with 1 1/2 teaspoons oil, and toss to coat. Bake until potatoes are tender and peppers are lightly charred, about 30 minutes, stirring potatoes once halfway through. Remove pan from oven. Cut bell pepper into strips. 
Cook almonds in a small skillet over medium until toasted, 2 to 3 minutes. Add 1 teaspoon broth, remaining 1/2 teaspoon chili powder, 1/8 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon rind, and sugar: cook, stirring occasionally, 1 minute. 
Whisk together remaining 5 teaspoons wine, remaining 3/4 teaspoon salt, remaining 1/4 teaspoon black pepper, remaining 1 teaspoon rind, juice, and cilantro in a bowl. Divide quinoa among 4 bowls: top evenly with kale, sweet potatoes, and bell pepper. Drizzle with juice mixture: top evenly with coated almonds, Cotija, and avocado. Serve with lime wedges. 

 


 
 


START RECIPE

HOMEMADE FRENCH BAGUETTES 

Recipe by Shrek278 
   
INGREDIENTS  
1 1⁄2 tablespoons dry active yeast (2 Pks) 
2 tablespoons honey 
3 1⁄2-4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting 
2 teaspoons salt 
canola oil, for geasing bowl 
cornmeal, for dusting pan 
3 -4 ice cubes 
DIRECTIONS 
Combine the honey, yeast and 1/2 cup warm water. Stir to combine and let the mixture stand until the yeast is activated and begins to foam, 5 minutes. 
Mix the flour and salt in a large mixing bowl with a dough hook and slowly add in the yeast mixture. Gradually add 1 cup warm water and mix until the dough comes together into a ball that is not too wet (you may not need all of the water). If the dough is sticky, add a little bit more flour. Turn out the dough onto a floured surface and knead until the dough is smooth and elastic, 2 to 6 minutes. You can do the thumbprint test: press in the dough with your thumb and it should bounce back when it's ready. 
Form the dough into a ball, place it in a lightly-oiled bowl and cover with a dishcloth, so it doesn't dry out. Let rest in a warm environment until doubled in size, 25 to 30 minutes. 
Punch down the dough and divide it in half. Shape into 2 baguettes by making a flat rectangle out of your dough, then folding the top and bottom towards the middle, like an envelope, and sealing the seam with your fingers. Keep repeating the folding and sealing, stretching the rectangle lengthwise as you go, until it's about 12 to 14 inches long and 2 inches wide. Fold and seal either end to round. Flip seam-side down and place on a sheet pan or baguette pan that has been dusted with cornmeal. Score the tops of the loaves, making deep diagonal slits 1/2-inch deep, cover with a dishcloth and let rise in a warm environment until they have doubled in size, 25 minutes. 
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F and position your oven racks with one on the bottom and the other in the middle. Place an oven-safe (non-glass) bowl or pan on the bottom rack. 
When your bread has doubled for the second time, remove the towel and quickly and simultaneously, slide the sheet tray with the baguettes onto the middle rack while carefully throwing the ice cubes into the bowl on the bottom rack. The ice will create a burst of steam that will give you a nice crispy crust. Quickly shut the oven door so no steam escapes. Bake the baguettes until golden brown, 15 minutes. 
Cook's Note: If you have a glass window on your oven, place a towel over it when throwing the ice in, hot glass can shatter if ice touches it. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Breakfast: Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oats 
Ingredients 
2 c. steel cut oats 
2 c. milk 
1 c. yogurt (or another cup milk or part whey) 
3 c. water 
4 apples, diced 
1 ½ c. fresh cranberries 
2-4 Tbs. butter and/or virgin coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) 
1 tsp. fresh lemon juice 
1-2 tsp. cinnamon 
½ tsp. nutmeg 
¼ c. maple syrup 
½ tsp. salt 
2 tsp. vanilla (optional) 
Instructions 
Grease the bottom of the Instant Pot container with butter or coconut oil. 
Soak all but the maple syrup, salt and vanilla overnight in the Instant Pot. 
In the morning just give it a quick stir and set the Instant Pot to 7 minutes on Manual, high pressure. 
Don’t forget to close the valve! 
It will take about 15-20 minutes to get up to pressure. 
When the timer is done, allow for a natural pressure release of 10 minutes. (Tip: set a timer for 35 minutes when you turn the IP on and that's about when it should be done.) The oats won't look done at first, too liquidy, but as you stir it all sort of absorbs the liquid and it's perfect. 
Stir in the salt, maple syrup, and vanilla and serve with milk. (Tip: Put these ingredients next to the IP the night before so you remember!) 

START RECIPE

Simple Paleo Sweet Potato, Broccoli, and Egg Breakfast Hash Recipe 
Ingredients 
1 lb. sweet potatoes, diced 
1 large head of broccoli cut into small pieces 
5 eggs 
Bacon grease (you can substitute other fats or oils, but you can't beat the flavor!) 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Instructions 
Heat the bacon grease over medium heat. Add the diced potatoes. Stir occasionally and be patient! The temperature can be just a smidge over medium. The idea is that you need to heat them long enough to cook through without burning the outside. You may need to add more bacon grease. I usually end up using about 2 tablespoons. 
Once the inside is cooked and the outside is just beginning to crisp, add the broccoli. Cook for a few minutes longer. 
Crack the eggs over the vegetables. Let them cook for a minute and then stir. Cook and stir until the eggs are done. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Enjoy! (And add chili sauce if you want to be adventurous!) 

START RECIPE

2 Grain-Free (and FUN!) Breakfast Recipes for Kids 

Ingredients 
2 tomatoes, diced 
2 avocados, peeled, pitted, diced 
½ c. cilantro, roughly chopped 
Juice from ½ lime 
1 tsp. cumin 
salt to taste 
5 hard boiled eggs 
Tortilla chips (optional) 
Instructions 
Mix the tomatoes, avocados, cilantro, lime juice, cumin and salt in a bowl and stir together. 
Add a little of the avocado and tomato salad to each plate. 
Nestle an egg in the center and add chips and cilantro around the plate. 

START RECIPE
Breakfast Boats 
 

Ingredients 
4 baked potatoes, cooked 
4 thick cut slices of bacon 
4 eggs 
2 handfuls of greens (swiss chard or kale work well) 
Salt and pepper to taste 
Instructions 
Carefully cut the potatoes in half lengthwise and scoop out the insides into a large bowl. Set the potato “shells” aside. 
Fry the bacon in a sauté pan until crispy, set the cooked bacon aside. Meanwhile, chop the greens up but save a few of the best leaves for sails. 
Toss the greens into the pan with the bacon fat. Cook the greens until they’ve softened (about 3 minutes for kale). Then add the potato insides you scooped out earlier. Since the potato is already cooked, you don’t have to sauté much longer. But I like to get the outside of the potato a little crispy (about 4 minutes). Add more bacon grease or other oil if necessary. 
Crack the eggs into the pan. Stir everything and cook until eggs are done. 
Scoop the egg/potato mixture into your potato shells. If you want to be fun, make little sails out of toothpicks and greens. 


START RECIPE

Perfect Blueberry Coconut Flour Pancake Recipe 

Ingredients 
4 eggs 
¼ c. unsweetened applesauce 
¼ c. coconut milk (or whole milk) 
½ banana, mashed (optional) 
¼ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. nutmeg 
¼ tsp. baking soda 
1 tsp. apple cider vinegar 
¼ c. melted coconut oil 
3-4 Tbs. packed coconut flour 
½-3/4 c. blueberries 
Instructions 
Prep note: If your coconut oil is solid, melt it. I like to use my metal measuring cup right on my griddle as it preheats so I don't dirty another pot! 
In a medium-sized bowl, mix all the ingredients except the coconut oil, coconut flour and blueberries. 
(I like to use a tool that can mash my banana right in the bowl.) 
Heat a cast iron griddle orenameled cast iron pan (or whatever you like to cook pancakes on) over medium heat. 
Whisk in the melted coconut oil quickly - it tends to solidify when it hangs out with the cold eggs too long. 
Add the coconut flour, starting with 3 tablespoons.  for clumps. 
Whisk thoroughly. 
Grease your cooking surface with ample fat (coconut oil, tallow or lard are great choices). 
Ladle out 3-inch pancakes, adding blueberries (or huckleberries, even better!) right into each pancake. 
Over medium-low or medium heat, cook a minute or so, until bubbles form on top, then flip and cook another 30 seconds or so until brown on the bottom. 
Notes 
* Avoiding sweeteners? Try with natural applesauce on top.  
* Use a whole (small) banana for a little more sweetness if you're not going to add maple syrup. It's just a balance between adding the sweet and not getting a banana pancake, taste-wise.  
* Start with 3 packed tablespoons of coconut flour. If you'd like a bit thicker pancake, go to 4 Tbs. (which is ¼ cup). Both taste good and don't get dry! 
* If you're new to coconut flour, it's nothing like what you're used to! Be sure to check out How to Bake Grain-free with Coconut Flour for all the tips, why I tell you pack it, and the best prices on the web. 
* If you grab the coconut milk or coconut flour at Vitacost and it's your first order, you can get $10 off by clicking HERE. 


START RECIPE

Simple Paleo Sweet Potato, Broccoli, and Egg Breakfast Hash Recipe 
Ingredients 
1 lb. sweet potatoes, diced 
1 large head of broccoli cut into small pieces 
5 eggs  
Bacon grease (you can substitute other fats or oils, but you can't beat the flavor!)
Salt and pepper to taste 
Instructions 
Heat the bacon grease over medium heat. Add the diced potatoes. Stir occasionally and be patient! The temperature can be just a smidge over medium. The idea is that you need to heat them long enough to cook through without burning the outside. You may need to add more bacon grease. I usually end up using about 2 tablespoons. 
Once the inside is cooked and the outside is just beginning to crisp, add the broccoli. Cook for a few minutes longer. 
Crack the eggs over the vegetables. Let them cook for a minute and then stir. Cook and stir until the eggs are done. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Enjoy! (And add chili sauce if you want to be adventurous!) 

START RECIPE

Green Veggie Pancakes for St. Patrick’s Day (no food coloring allowed!) 

Ingredients 
3 large potatoes (about 4 cups worth, shredded) 
2-3 cups shredded sweet potato 
optional other veggies - you can replace some of the white potatoes with zucchini, carrots, or other root vegetables. 
a few BIG handfuls of spinach 
3 eggs 
2 Tbs. flour (any - white, whole wheat, brown rice, ETC.) 
1 medium onion 
1 tsp. salt 
oil for frying (refined coconut oil is excellent) 
Instructions 
Wash, peel (optional) and grate the raw potatoes (all). I use a food processor! Salt the gratings and allow to sit for 10-60 minutes (depending on how long you have before the meal), then drain the excess water that accumulates at the bottom of the bowl. If you're hurrying and must skip this step entirely, the pancakes will survive. 
Food process (with the regular blade) or finely chop onion and add to shredded veggies. 
Food process the spinach and mix it in. 
Beat eggs well and add to the bowl (or just beat on top and then mix in). If it's green, you're good to go! 
Add salt and flour. Mix well. 
Heat oil in frying pan or electric griddle at about 350F. I love my cast iron griddle (found on Amazon) and use it multiple times a day. 
Spoon potato mixture into hot oil and flatten with spoon or spatula to create 3-4” circles. 
Add a spoonful of the liquid that collects at the bottom of the mixing bowl right in the center. It's mostly egg and will remind you of a fried egg around the edges of the pancake. 
This helps to hold everything together nicely so you don't end up just making veggie hashbrowns. Flip when the underside is golden brown, about 2 minutes. The second side won't cook quite as evenly brown, but when it starts looking like toasty hashbrowns, they're done (about 3-5 minutes). 
Remove to a plate: drain with paper towel if necessary. 
Traditional toppings include sour cream or applesauce, but they're also good with real maple syrup, homemade yogurt in place of the sour cream, or even ketchup. My son uses 3 of the 4, which makes my husband cringe, but hey – to each his own toppings as long as they're eating their vegetables! 


 
 START RECIPE

 “Tastes Like Pizza” Breakfast Hash Recipe 
Ingredients 
2 Tbs. fat of choice (bacon grease is excellent of course) 
1 medium leek, sliced 
½-1 turnip, peeled and diced 
½-1 celeriac, diced (celery root...or just use some celery to keep it simple) 
½ fennel bulb, sliced 
about a cup of bok choy, white and green parts, roughly chopped (or any leafy green you have around) 
1-2 cloves garlic, minced 
salt and pepper to taste 
½-1 tsp. smoked paprika 
¼-1/2 c. cooked sausage crumbles 
Instructions 
In a hot skillet, saute the turnip, leek, celeriac, fennel, and white part of the bok choy in the fat. 
Stir around for a few minutes, then allow to cook on medium-low, covered, for about 15 minutes or until the diced vegetables are soft. 
Stir occasionally to prevent sticking to the pan.
Add the sausage, leafy greens, garlic, salt, pepper, and paprika and stir until garlic is fragrant and greens are wilted, about 2 minutes more. 
Serve hot with optional diced tomatoes, chopped parsley, or sliced green onion on top. (I added feta, but that's not Whole30.) 
Add an egg if you like. 


START RECIPE

Pumpkin Oatmeal Breakfast Bars Recipe 
Ingredients 
1½ c. whole rolled oats (certified gluten free if needed for an allergy) 
½ c. nuts (pecan and walnuts are both excellent!) 
1 tsp. vanilla 
¾ c. pumpkin puree 
1 egg 
1 very ripe (small) banana 
2 Tbs. maple syrup or honey 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
½ tsp. ginger 
¼ tsp. cardamom (optional) 
Instructions 
Use a fork to mash the banana into a smooth paste in a medium size mixing bowl. 
Add the vanilla, pumpkin, egg and maple syrup or honey and stir until smooth. 
Add the oats, nuts, and spices and stir just until combined. 
Pour into a well greased 8x8 baking dish or pie plate. Use a rubber spatula to smooth the batter out to the edges of the pan. 
Bake at 350 degrees for about 20-25 min. 
Note: If the mixture seems very runny, feel free to add more oats to thicken up before baking. The moisture content of your pumpkin and size of banana have a big impact here. 

START RECIPE


Cardamom Ginger Peach Crumble Recipe (Gluten-Free) 
Ingredients 
Filling: 
8 peaches, sliced and peeled 
¼ tsp. ginger 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
¾ tsp. cardamom 
2-3 Tbs. flour (oat or whole wheat) 
1-2 Tbs. cane sugar, rapadura, or sucanat 
2 Tbs. crystallized ginger 
½ c. chopped pecans (optional) 
Topping: 
1 cup rolled oats 
½ cup flour (oat of whole wheat) 
¾ c. butter 
¼ c. cane sugar, rapadura, or sucanat 
2 tsp. vanilla 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 350. 
Combine all of the filling ingredients and gently stir to combine. If the peaches are very ripe and juicy use 3 Tbs. flour and only 1 Tbsp. sugar. If the peaches are firm then only use 2 Tbs. flour and increase the sugar to 2 Tbs. 
In another bowl combine the oats, flour and cinnamon. 
Cut the butter into chunks and sprinkle on top of the topping mixture. 
Sprinkle the vanilla on top of the butter and mash everything together with a fork. 
Spread the fruit mixture into an 8x8 pan, a deep pie plate or individual ramekins. 
Sprinkle the topping over the fruit, gently pressing down as you go. 
Bake for 20-25 minutes or until the fruit is bubbly and the topping is golden brown. 
Serve warm or cold. 

START RECIPE

Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert Topping Recipe 

Ingredients 
1 Tbs. butter 
1 banana 
1 small or ½ large apple 
½ tsp. cinnamon 
(optional) ¼-1/2 tsp. dried ground ginger (or grated fresh) 
1 Tbs. pecans or walnuts, coarsely chopped or whole (make them crispy nuts first) 
(optional) shredded coconut 
Instructions 
Melt the butter in a small skillet over medium heat. 
Slice the banana into thirds and then each piece lengthwise (6 pieces total). 
Place the banana slices in the melted butter, flat side down. 
Cook for 3 minutes on medium (or medium-low if you're on a big burner), uncovered. 
Meanwhile, wash and finely dice or slice the apple (about ½ centimeter pieces). Choose a nice cooking apple like a Gala, Fuji, Golden Delicious, Cortland, or really just about anything that's not overly tart. 
Flip each banana slice individually. They should be nicely browned and a bit crispy on the bottom (cook 1-2 more minutes if not yet browned, see picture below). 
Add the apple to the skillet, trying to fill the spaces between the bananas in the melted butter, and sprinkle everything with cinnamon, nuts and optional ginger. 
Cover and cook 3 minutes on low heat, checking once or twice to make sure nothing is getting too brown. 
Take the cover off and turn the heat back up to medium to caramelize the fruit a bit more.  closely and stir gently so as to not overbrown anything. 
Remove from heat and serve warm. 
Serves 1 for a dessert dish or 2-4 as a topping. 


START RECIPE


Pumpkin Pie Baked Oatmeal Recipe 
Ingredients 
2 ½ c. whole rolled oats (not quick or instant) 
¼ c. whole wheat or buckwheat (GF) flour, freshly ground 
1 ¾ c. liquid* 
½ c. (or cut to ¼ c.) coconut oil (or butter, softened or melted) 
1-2 c. pumpkin (1/2-1 16 oz. can) 
4 eggs 
¼-1/2 c. maple syrup 
1 tsp. baking powder 
½ tsp. salt 
3 tsp. cinnamon 
1 tsp. ginger 
1 tsp. nutmeg 
1 tsp. cloves 
1 c. raisins (or serve on the side) 

Instructions 
Two nights before you want to eat baked oatmeal at breakfast: Mix the oats, flour, and liquid together. If you have a 9×13 glass pan with a lid, I recommend mixing the oats right in there to save a dish. Allow to rest at room temperature, covered, for 24 hours. 
The night before you need the quick breakfast: Beat oil, maple syrup and eggs until glossy (I use my KitchenAid mixer). The cold eggs generally made the coconut oil solidify a bit, but don’t worry about it. Just beat. Incorporate the pumpkin. 
Add the baking powder, salt, and all spices. Beat in the oats mixture, then add raisins (nuts are a nice addition, too), stirring to combine. 
Pour back into that 9×13 glass dish, put a lid on it, and refrigerate overnight. If you don’t have a lid, try one of these methods to avoid using plastic wrap. 
In the morning, put the pan (uncovered) right from the fridge into a cold oven and turn on to 350F. Bake for 30-40 minutes until a knife inserted in the center comes out clean and the oatmeal is not mushy to the touch. 
Serve warm with milk and extra syrup if you prefer. Store covered, either at room temperature or in the refrigerator. It’s pretty doggone good cold, too…I might be the type of person to buzz by a dish and snitch a bite here and there throughout the day! 
*For the liquid, choose from buttermilk, plain homemade yogurt (or store bought), raw milk, half milk/half yogurt, half water/yogurt, half whey/yogurt – good if you have whey to use up. If you don’t have raw milk, as long you mix it with half yogurt or cultured dairy, it should be fine for the soak overnight, but don’t use 100% pasteurized milk as the only liquid. 
START RECIPE

Easy Potato Vegetable Pancakes Recipe (Latkes) 
Ingredients 
3 large potatoes (about 4 cups worth, grated) 
about 2-3 cups other vegetables, grated (see Q&A notes) 
3 eggs 
2 Tbs. flour (see Q&A notes) 
1 medium onion 
1 tsp. salt 
oil for frying (refined coconut oil is excellent) 

Instructions 
Wash, peel (optional) and grate the raw potatoes. Salt the gratings and allow to sit for 10-60 minutes (depending on how long you have before the meal), then drain the excess water that accumulates at the bottom of the bowl. If you're hurrying and must skip this step entirely, the pancakes will survive. 
Grate or finely chop onion and add to potatoes, along with any other veggies you're using. (Grate = lots of crying: finely chop = only a few tears. Another reason I like the food processor to do the job for me. Use the regular blade to chop onions.) 
Beat eggs well and add to the bowl (or just beat on top and then mix in). 
Add salt and flour. Mix well. 
Heat oil in frying pan or electric griddle at about 350F. 
Spoon potato mixture into hot oil and flatten with spoon or spatula to create 3-4” circles: 
Add a spoonful of the liquid that collects at the bottom of the mixing bowl right in the center. It's mostly egg and will remind you of a fried egg around the edges of the pancake:
This helps to hold everything together nicely so you don't end up just making veggie hashbrowns. Flip when the underside is golden brown, about 2 minutes. The second side won't cook quite as evenly brown, but when it starts looking like toasty hashbrowns, they're done (about 3-5 minutes). 
Remove to a plate: drain with paper towel if necessary: 
Traditional toppings include sour cream or applesauce, but they're also good with real maple syrup, homemade yogurt in place of the sour cream, or even ketchup. My son uses 3 of the 4, which makes my husband cringe, but hey – to each his own toppings as long as they're eating their vegetables! 


START RECIPE

Grain-Free Apple Flax Muffins Recipes 
Ingredients 
1¼ c. flax seed meal OR whole flax seeds 
2 tsp. baking powder 
1 Tbs. cinnamon 
1 tsp. nutmeg (optional) 
½ tsp. salt 
⅓ c. sugar or sucanat 
4 eggs 
¼ c. melted unrefined coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) (or butter) 
½ c. applesauce (yogurt works as a substitute) 
1 tsp. vanilla 
1 large apple, chopped 
½ c. walnuts, chopped 

Instructions 
If using ground flax (meal): 
Mix dry ingredients. Beat the eggs and add to dry mixture along with oil, applesauce, and vanilla. Mix thoroughly. Add apple and nuts and stir to combine. 
If using whole flax seeds: you'll need a decent blender for this one: 
Blend eggs, oil, flax seeds, applesauce and vanilla about a minute, or as long as it takes to grind up the seeds completely. (This just about killed my blender, so I decided good enough when my blender just didn't want to move anymore.) The mixture will get very gummy and thick quite quickly. 
Combine dry ingredients separately. 
If you have a high-powered blender, add dry ingredients to the mixture in the blender and blend to combine, then stir in apples and walnuts. 
If you have a regular blender, pour wet mixture from blender into a bowl, where you can combine with dry ingredients, apples and nuts. 
To finish either method: 
Allow fully incorporated mixture to stand 10 minutes. 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line or grease muffin tins. Spoon into tins (the batter will be very thick) and bake for 18 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. (12-14 for mini muffins) 


START RECIPE


Recipe Connection: Easy Paleo {Grain-Free} Banana Pancakes 
Ingredients 
3 bananas, slightly overripe is fine 
3 eggs 
3 Tbs oil (melted butter or coconut oil), optional 
1+ tsp. cinnamon 
chopped walnuts, optional 
¼ c. yogurt cheese, optional 

Instructions 
Mash the bananas well, then mix in all the other ingredients. I usually use my hand blender, but I've also done it with a fork (just takes longer). Use a potato masher for chunkier texture. 
Fry in lots of fat until brown on the bottom, flipping once. 
Really let the pancakes get brown on the bottom before attempting to flip, as they’re very fragile. A quick move with an extremely thin spatula is the way to go. (See Notes for an adaptation to make them easier to flip.) 
Serve with butter and real maple syrup. However, they’re typically so sweet you don’t need the syrup. 
The leftover pancakes can be stored in the refrigerator and reheated in a toaster oven just like you would grainy pancakes, although you probably won’t really have leftovers unless you make a double batch. 

START RECIPE


The Best Scrambled Eggs Ever 
Ingredients 
Butter 
Eggs 
Cottage cheese (secret ingredient!) 
Spinach 

Instructions 
Put pan on stove and turn burner on medium heat. 
Grab from fridge: butter, eggs, cottage cheese (secret ingredient!) and spinach, if any is washed. 
Run stick of butter around pan a few times. (Why real butter only?) 
Throw handful of spinach in pan or a few cubes of frozen spinach (optional). 
Use spoonula (one of my favorite kitchen gadgets!) to scoop cottage cheese into pan. (Ratio is about 2-3 Tbs cottage cheese for every two eggs. This is especially excellent for pregnant women because cottage cheese has a lot of protein, oh-so-important for growing babies. Be sure to use full fat cottage cheese – here’s why.) 
Break eggs directly into pan. 
Mix with spoonula: turn heat to medium-low. 
Continue to stir periodically as eggs cook. 
During this time, you get the plates and forks out, put stuff back into the fridge, get toast going, put dishes away from last night’s dinner, corral kiddos into the kitchen…all the stuff you’d usually be doing before or after pouring the milk on the cereal. 
Add optional shredded cheese, definitely if you’re expecting (bring on the protein!). 
START RECIPE


Apple Squares Recipe (You can Freeze ‘Em!) 
Ingredients 
Apple Squares 
2 c. white flour 
1 t. baking soda 
1 t. cinnamon 
½ t. salt 
1 c. coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) 
1¾ c. sugar 
4 beaten eggs 
2 t. vanilla 
2 c. unpeeled, chopped apples 
½ c. nuts (optional) 
Frosting 
1 ½ c. powdered sugar 
2 T. butter, melted 
3 T. water 
1 t. vanilla 

Instructions 
Preheat over to 350 
Stir dry ingredients together. 
In another bowl, beat oil, sugar, eggs, and vanilla. 
Add dry to liquid ingredients, beating well. 
Stir in apples and nuts. 
Pour into greased 15x10x1 cookie sheet. 
Bake 25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. 
Frost once cooled or mostly cooled. 

START RECIPE


Soaked Healthy Pumpkin Muffins Recipe 
Ingredients 
1⅔ cup white whole wheat flour 
1 c. pureed pumpkin 
¾ c. water 
2 Tbs buttermilk or plain yogurt 
½ c. melted butter or refined coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) 
1 c. sugar or sucanat 
2 eggs 
½ tsp. baking powder 
1½ tsp. baking soda 
¾ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. cloves 
½ tsp. cinnamon 
½ tsp. nutmeg 

Instructions 
Soak white whole wheat flour, pureed pumpkin (optional), water, buttermilk/yogurt, and butter/coconut oil together overnight or for 12-24 hours on the countertop. 
When ready to bake, add the sweetener, eggs, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and 3 spices. Mix well - be sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl a few times and beat hard to get everything fully incorporated. 
Pour into muffin cups and bake 40-45 minutes at 325 degrees F (35-40 with honey). They’ll be a bit more moist than you’re used to with the “toothpick test”. 
Do not overbake! 
Allow to rest 5 minutes in the tins, then tip out to cool on racks. 


START RECIPE


Sourdough Recipes Galore: Variations on Sourdough Muffins 

Ingredients 
1 C “discarded” sourdough starter 
1 C whole wheat flour (sift flour prior to measuring) 
1 egg 
1 tsp vanilla 
¼ tsp salt 
1 tsp cinnamon (optional) and/or other spices 
¼ C melted coconut oil or melted butter 
½ C honey 
1 tsp baking soda 
~1/2 C blueberries (or pumpkin puree or whatever add-in you like!) 
1 C “discarded” sourdough starter 
1 C whole wheat flour (sift flour prior to measuring) 
1 egg 
1 tsp vanilla 
¼ tsp salt 
1 tsp cinnamon (optional) and/or other spices 
¼ C melted coconut oil or melted butter 
½ C honey 
1 tsp baking soda 
~1/2 C blueberries (or pumpkin puree or whatever add-in you like!) 
Equipment: 
Stand mixer 
Plastic wrap 
Medium mixing bowl 
Muffin tins 
Instructions 
In a stand mixer, combine sourdough starter and whole wheat flour.
Once the two are thoroughly combined, cover the dough with plastic wrap ensuring that none of it is exposed to the air. 
Let sit at room temperature for at least seven hours. 
The dough will rise some while it sits. 
If any of it has gotten exposed to the air and gotten dry, just remove those bits so you don’t have little dough nuggets in your final product. 
When you’re ready to bake, preheat the oven to 400 degrees. 
Prepare a muffin pan with papers or grease the cups. 
In a separate bowl, mix together all other ingredients except for blueberries and baking soda. Add those ingredients to the dough in the mixer’s bowl and mix together. 
Once all the ingredients are mixed and have come together as a batter, sprinkle the baking soda in the bowl and mix batter again briefly to incorporate. 
Fold in blueberries and scoop batter into prepared muffin pan. 
Bake for 20 min. Makes 8-12 muffins. 

START RECIPE

One-Pot Sweet & Savory Chicken with Cabbage Recipe 

Ingredients 
2 Tbs. olive oil 
3 lbs. chicken thighs, sliced 
2 tsp. garlic powder 
1 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. pepper 
1-2 tsp. allspice 
1 fennel bulb, sliced (save fronds for garnish_ 
2 medium apples, sliced thinly (Granny Smith adds a great tartness) 
½ tsp. mustard powder 
1 tsp. salt 
½ tsp. black pepper 
1 tsp. allspice 
2 garlic cloves 
¼ c. apple cider vinegar 
1 medium green cabbage, sliced 
optional- a couple teaspoons of maple syrup 
Instructions 
In a deep cast iron pan or wide-bottomed stainless steel pot, heat olive oil. 
Sear the chicken on high, allowing it to cook about a minute on each side. 
Add the garlic powder, salt, pepper and allspice and toss with the meat: cook chicken about 5 minutes each side or until no pink is visible inside. 
Prep the apples and cabbage and crush the garlic while waiting. 
Remove cooked chicken. 
Add the fennel to the same pan and sauté for a couple minutes over medium heat (add more oil if needed). 
Add apples, mustard powder, salt pepper and allspice. 
Sauté together until caramelizing (browning) begins, about 5 minutes. 
Put the fresh crushed garlic in and stir around for 1 minute. 
Pour in the ACV and add the cabbage. (It always seems like it's way too much, but trust us - cabbage cooks down like nobody's business, so stuff as much in as your pot will fit!) 
Toss together over medium heat until the cabbage is tender. 
Sample and add more seasoning or maple syrup to taste. 
Toss the chicken back in with the cabbage (or you can serve it on the side). 
Garnish with the pretty parts of the fennel. 

START RECIPE

Instant Pot Sweet and Sour Meatballs Recipe {AIP & GAPS Friendly} 

Ingredients 
1½ lbs. grassfed ground beef 
1 tsp unrefined sea salt 
1 tsp. dried basil 
3 capsules (about 1 tsp.) desiccated liver(or more if you like) 
1 cup bone broth (any variety works) 
1 cup pureed pumpkin 
¼ cup honey (more or less to taste) 
Instructions 
Combine the beef, salt, basil and liver. Mix well. 
Roll beef into meatballs (slightly smaller than a golf ball for meals, half that size for appetizers) and place in the Instant Pot. 
Pour the broth, pumpkin and honey over the meatballs. 
Turn on the Instant Pot and set to 35 minutes. Allow the IP to naturally release the steam. 
If desired remove the meatballs, cook the sauce on the sautee setting until it reaches desired thickness. Put the meatballs back in the sauce until ready to serve. Or drain the sauce and cook it in a sauce pan on the stove for about 5 minutes, until it reduces and thickens. 
Serve the meatballs on rice, noodles, cauli-rice, zucchini noodles, spaghetti squash or butternut squash and topped with the sauce. 


START RECIPE


Instant Pot Beef BBQ Recipe 
Ingredients 
3 lb. beef chuck roast 
6 oz. can tomato paste 
2 Tbs. yellow mustard 
2 Tbs. dry minced onion 
1 tsp. garlic powder 
1 tsp. Real Salt 
1 tsp. pepper 
2 Tbs. apple cider vinegar 
water 
Instructions 
For added flavor, brown the roast first. (Totally optional, will add 10-15 minutes to the recipe.) Press Saute on the Instant Pot. When the display reads Hot, add a Tbs. of cooking oil (coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) is a good choice) and let the roast sizzle a few minutes on each side. If you don't brown the roast, simply place it in the bottom of the IP. 
In a 2-cup measuring cup, mix the tomato paste, mustard, onion, garlic powder, salt, pepper and ACV. 
Add water to reach 2 cups total, stir, and pour over the roast. 
Check the sealing ring and lock the Instant Pot, turning the valve to sealing. 
Press Meat/Stew and use the + or Adjust button to increase the timing to 60 minutes. 
It will take about 15 minutes for the unit to get up to pressure and start the countdown timer. 
When the cycle is finished and the IP beeps, allow 10-15 minutes for a natural pressure release (in other words, ignore it for a while). If you're in a real hurry, the meat will be cooked and just not quite as tender if you open the lid immediately after the cycle ends. 
Open the valve to venting to release any remaining steam, twist off the lid, and use two forks to shred the beef. You can do this in the pot or on a separate plate. Sometimes it will be falling apart so much you just have to stir it up with a spoon and it shreds itself. 😉 
If you have the time, return the meat to the Instant Pot and put the lid back on for a bit while it's still on warm to allow the meat to soak up more juices.
Serve hot. 
Optional: Use the juices to make seasoned rice! (see below for instructions) 
Optional: If you'd rather have thick sauce over your beef, add a tablespoon or two of arrowroot starch to the juices while the shredded meat is in there. Press cancel and then saute and stir around for few minutes until thickened. 

START RECIPE


Bake and Serve: Garlic Maple Chicken Recipe 
Ingredients 
1-1.5 lbs. chicken (breasts, tenders, or thighs) 
¼ - ½ tsp. garlic powder (to taste) 
⅛ tsp. salt (to taste) 
8-10 pats of butter 
⅛ - ¼ c. maple syrup (to taste: less is fine) 
Instructions 
Place chicken in a baking dish. 
Sprinkle on garlic powder, as well as salt and pepper to taste. 
Top the chicken with pats of butter. If using breasts, put one pat per breast. 
Drizzle maple syrup lightly across the top. 
Bake uncovered at 375F for 20-25 minutes until internal temperature reaches 160F. 
Serve chicken and ladle juice across. 


START RECIPE

Whole30 BBQ Boneless Pork Ribs in the Instant Pot 
Ingredients 
2 Tbs. olive oil, lard, or other cooking fat 
1 large onion, sliced 
2-2.5 lbs. boneless pork ribs (country style) 
For the rub: 
2 tsp. salt 
½ tsp. white pepper (or black is fine if you don't have white) 
1 tsp. garlic powder 
1 tsp. smoked paprika 
½ tsp. coriander 
½ tsp. thyme 
¼ tsp. allspice 
For the sauce: 
1 c. tomato sauce 
1 c. stock (beef or chicken) or water 
2 Tbs. red wine vinegar 
2 tsp. mustard powder 
½ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. garlic powder 
½ tsp. dried ginger powder 

Instructions 
Turn the Instant Pot on to Saute. Add the oil, and when it's hot, add the onion. 
Stir that around for at least 5 minutes, although 10 would be better to get it brown/caramelized. 
Meanwhile, mix the spice rub by blending the salt, white pepper, garlic powder, smoked paprika, coriander, thyme, and allspice. 
If the onions seem to be cooking along too fast, hit the cancel button. You can go back to sauteeing at any time if you think it needs more. 
Once the onions look and smell delicious, rub the spice blend on the pork and put it all into the IP on top of the onions. (I plunked the pork in the pot and poured the spices over and moved them around with my spoon because I don't like getting another bowl out and digging my hands into raw meat. Whatever works!) 
Mix the sauce together in a bowl or glass measuring cup: tomato sauce, stock or water, vinegar, mustard powder, salt, garlic powder, and dried ginger. 
Pour the sauce into the bottom of the Instant Pot, trying not to pour the spices off your meat. 
Close and lock the lid and make sure the valve is closed.  
Press the Meat/Stew button, which is 35 minutes on high pressure (with about 15-20 minutes to get to pressure). 
Allow for natural pressure release at the end of the cook time. 
The ribs should be just falling apart. Serve over rice, noodles, or mashed potatoes, or for Whole30/Paleo, serve with lots of sauteed or roasted veggies and a big old baked white or sweet potato. 
You'll have lots of juices leftover, which go awesome on rice as a side dish in a future meal, as a sauce for a veggie saute, or as the start for a leftover soup with your meat and some other ingredients. 

START RECIPE

Cheeseburger Soup (with bacon and pickles, oh yeah!) 
Ingredients 
1 lb. ground beef 
1 large or 2 medium onions, diced 
3-4 stalks celery, diced 
~4 medium carrots, diced 
2 lbs. potatoes or turnips, diced (~6 medium, unpeeled is fine) 
2-4 cloves garlic, minced, or ¼-1/2 tsp. garlic powder 
1-2 tsp. salt, to taste 
⅛-1/2 tsp. pepper, to taste 
2 c. home-cooked kidney or white beans (or 1 can), or cooked lentils 
4+ c. beef or chicken stock (up to 8 cups)* 
⅓ c. tomato sauce or 2 Tbs.tomato paste 
½-1 Tbs. honey or molasses, optional 
¼ c. yellow mustard (prepared) 
1-2 c. grated cheddar cheese (I prefer sharp) 
Optional add-ins: 
2 c. cooked brown rice 
chopped broccoli 
shredded zucchini 
sauteed mushrooms 

Instructions 
Crush garlic and allow it to sit to activate its health benefits. 
In a large pot, brown beef over medium heat. Add onions and celery and cook until translucent. 
As you chop them, add the carrots and potatoes/turnips, then stir in the crushed garlic, salt and pepper. Cook 1-2 minutes, stirring often. 
Add the beans or lentils, stock, and tomato sauce/paste. 
Bring to a boil. Cover and simmer 10-15 minutes or until vegetables are soft. 
Stir in optional sweetener and mustard: taste to see if more salt is needed. 
Turn off the heat and stir in the cheese until it is melted. (It's okay to leave the heat on if you need to keep the soup warm to serve.) 
Serve with chopped dill pickles, cooked and crumbled bacon, additional shredded cheese, sour cream, and any other “burger” toppings you enjoy, like raw onion, green olives, mushrooms, avocado, etc. 


START RECIPE


Make a Silly Muffin Meal {Recipe: Smashed Potato & Pea Muffins} 
Ingredients 
4 medium or 6 small potatoes 
OR 3 c. already smashed potatoes 
¼ tsp. garlic powder or a clove or 2 fresh crushed garlic 
1 beaten egg 
¼ c. cottage cheese 
2 Tbs. butter 
¼-1/2 tsp. salt 
pepper to taste 
½ c. frozen green peas 
Instructions 
Wash and boil the potatoes for about 15 minutes or until soft in salted water. (If using fresh garlic, add it to the water as it will be too strong straight up in the potatoes.) 
Drain the cooked potatoes. 
Add all the other ingredients and smash with a potato masher or other handy utensil. Mix well. 
Put a big spoonful of potatoes into each large muffin cup, and add a scoop of frozen peas, then top with more potatoes. They won't change shape, so fill the cups as much as you wish. 
For mini muffins, you probably want to stir the peas right in since they're a bit too small for hide-and-seek peas. 
Bake at 375F for 40 minutes, 15-20 minutes for mini muffins. 
Makes about 10-12 muffins or 24 minis. 



START RECIPE


Real Food Spooky Halloween Shepherd’s Pie 
Ingredients 
2½ lb. red potatoes, chunked 
3 cloves crushed garlic (or ½ tsp. garlic powder), divided 
4-6 slices bacon, optional but yummy 
1 lb. ground beef or turkey 
(note: a great chance to sneak in liver or heart…) 
1½ tsp. paprika 
1½ tsp. cumin 
1 tsp. ground thyme 
freshly ground pepper 
1 medium onion, chopped 
2-4 carrots, diced 
2 celery ribs, diced 
½ red pepper, chopped 
1-2 c. chopped broccoli, including stems 
1 c. frozen peas 
4 Tbs. flour (or arrowroot starch) 
1 c. chicken or beef stock or broth 
1 c. plain yogurt, divided 
1 egg 
2 Tbs. butter 
¼ c. cottage cheese 
½-1 tsp. Real Salt, to taste (or other unrefined sea salt) 
½ c.+ shredded cheddar cheese, divided (sharp is best) 
Instructions 
Boil potatoes with a clove or two of crushed garlic and some sea salt and cook on medium-low until tender, about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, get busy in another medium-large pot. 
Cook the bacon, drain grease, chop bacon and set aside. In the same pot, brown the ground meat. Drain grease if necessary. [If you're low on time, you could have the bacon going in a frying pan next to the big pot to speed things up. Or better yet, maybe you are smart and have some already cooked bacon in your freezer!] 
Season meat with paprika, cumin, thyme, salt and pepper. Add onions, carrots, and celery. Cook about 5 minutes to soften veggies, then add red pepper, broccoli, peas, and remaining crushed garlic. Cook 2 minutes. Put the bacon back in. 
Stir in flour (or starch), and cook and stir 2 minutes (to get rid of the flour taste). Add broth and ½ c. yogurt and bring to a low simmer. 
Preheat the oven to 375F. (You can also refrigerate the casserole and bake later if you'd like.) 
When the potatoes are tender, stir a ladle of the cooking water into one beaten egg in a small bowl. Drain the potatoes. You can leave them in the pot a few minutes to dry out a bit if you’re still working on all those veggies in the other pot! 
Smash the potatoes with butter, ½ c. yogurt (or sour cream), salt, pepper, and cottage cheese plus ¼ c. of the shredded cheddar. Add the egg mixture and stir well.
Pour the meat mixture into an oval or 9×13 casserole dish (usually both, this recipe tends to grow like the loaves and fishes!). 
Top with potatoes and sprinkle the remaining ¼ c. cheddar cheese on top. You’ll likely need extra cheese if you divided the meal into two pans. 
To make the ghostie potatoes, either get creative with a spoon and fork or load the potatoes into a frosting decorator, or even a plastic food storage bag with the corner cut off, and make a spiral shape as the potatoes come out. Place two peas on top for eyes. Try shredded cheese for hair if you want rock star ghosties! 
Bake 20 minutes until bubbly and the cheese is melted. 

START RECIPE


Spaghetti Squash Lasagna {Low-Carb, Gluten-free, Grain-free} 
Ingredients 
½ lb. ground beef 
2 medium onions, diced 
1 green pepper or 1 red pepper or both, diced 
4 cloves garlic, crushed 
1-3 c. jar spaghetti sauce 
4-6 c. cooked spaghetti squash (1 large) 
½ tsp. salt 
¼ tsp. pepper 
1½ c. ricotta cheese 
1½ c. shredded mozzarella, divided 
¼-1/2 c. Parmesan 
Instructions 
Bake spaghetti squash by cutting in half, scooping out the seeds, and laying face down in a baking dish with about 1 centimeter of water in it. Bake at 350-400F for 30-45 minutes, until a fork can easily pierce the skin. You can make it easier to cut by putting the whole thing in the oven during the preheat, about 10 minutes. 
This step can be done anytime before the meal: use the squash chilled if cooked the day before (save energy and bake it with dinner), or bake it right in the lasagna pan to save a dish. 
To assemble the lasagna, put a few spoonfuls of spaghetti sauce in the bottom of a 9x13” pan. 
In a large pot, brown beef: add onions and peppers, cook until limp. Browning the onions adds an incredible layer of flavor to the entire dish. Add garlic for last 2 minutes.
Mix in spaghetti sauce. 
Meanwhile in a bowl, mix the squash with the salt, pepper, ricotta cheese and 1 c. of the mozzarella. 
Layer in pan with half the squash mixture, half the beef mixture, the remaining squash and the remaining beef. Top with ½ cup mozzarella (at least) and all the Parmesan. 
Bake at 375 for 25-30 minutes until bubbly around the edges. 

START RECIPE


Tomato Basil Einkorn Pasta with Greens Recipe 

Ingredients 
8 oz. Einkorn spaghetti or other pasta 
2 Tbs. EVOO 
3 cloves garlic, crushed (garlic scapes, optional) 
1-18.3 oz. jar Jovial Foods organic diced tomatoes 
3-4 leaves kale or swiss chard, chopped finely 
⅓ c. chopped fresh basil 
2 oz. white cheese, grated (or cut in chunks) 
Instructions 
Cook pasta to package directions and drain. 
Heat a medium-large pot and add oil, then garlic, sauteing for a minute over medium heat. (Note: Don't use cast iron with tomato dishes) 
Pour in the tomatoes and greens, stir, and heat over medium high with a lid on the pot. 
Once the greens are wilted, add the fresh basil and cheese just long enough for the cheese to begin to melt, about 2 minutes. 
Add the drained pasta and stir to coat. 
Serve warm or cold as a pasta salad. 

START RECIPE


Savory Greek Sausage Stuffed Autumn Squash 
Ingredients 
2-3 acorn and/or carnival squash 
½-1 lb. sausage (we prefer spicy) 
1 onion, chopped 
½ green pepper, chopped 
½ red pepper, chopped 
2 large tomatoes, diced OR 1 15-oz. can diced tomatoes, drained 
1-2 c. spinach (or more) 
4 cloves garlic, pressed 
¼ tsp. pepper 
sprinkle of salt 
1 Tbs. balsamic vinegar 
1 c. shredded mozzarella cheese 
¼ c. Parmesan cheese 
2-4 Tbs. butter 
1 Tbs. feta cheese 

Instructions 
Wash, cut, and seed the squash. 
Place face down in a 9×13” glass dish with some water at the bottom. 
Bake at 400F for 20-30 minutes until skin is easily pierced with a knife and flesh is soft. 
Brown sausage in a very large pan or shallow pot. 
Drain grease if necessary. 
Press garlic and set aside. 
Add onion and peppers and saute until well cooked, about 5-8 minutes. 
Add tomatoes and cook a few minutes: season with salt and pepper. Add spinach and garlic together, stir and cook 2 minutes or until greens are wilted. 
Remove pan from heat. 
Stir in vinegar, mozzarella and Parmesan cheeses until melted. 
Turn the squash over but leave them in the glass dish. 
Place ½-1 Tbs. butter and some salt and pepper in each squash. 
Stuff squash with the sausage and cheese mixture, then top with feta. 
(optional) Broil a few minutes to very lightly toast the feta. 
Serve hot in the shell. 
Serves 4-6. 

START RECIPE


Veggie-Laden Shepherd’s Pie Recipe 

Ingredients 
2½ lbs. red potatoes, chunked 
3 cloves crushed garlic (or ½ tsp. garlic powder), divided 
4-6 slices bacon, optional but yummy 
1 lb. ground beef or turkey 
(note: a great chance to sneak in liver or heart…) 
1½ tsp. paprika 
1½ tsp. cumin 
1 tsp. ground thyme 
freshly ground pepper 
1 medium onion, chopped 
2-4 carrots, diced 
2 celery ribs, diced 
½ red pepper, chopped 
1-2 c. chopped broccoli, including stems 
1 c. frozen peas 
4 Tbs. flour (or arrowroot starch) 
1 c. chicken or beef stock or broth 
1 c. plain yogurt, divided 
1 egg 
2 Tbs. butter 
¼ c. cottage cheese 
½-1 tsp. Real Salt, to taste (or other unrefined sea salt) 
½ c.+ shredded cheddar cheese, divided (sharp is best) 
Instructions 
Boil potatoes with a clove or two of crushed garlic and some sea salt and cook on medium-low until tender, about 15 minutes. 
Meanwhile, get busy in another medium-large pot. 
Cook the bacon, drain grease, chop bacon and set aside. 
In the same pot, brown the ground meat. 
Drain grease if necessary. (If you're low on time, you could have the bacon going in a frying pan next to the big pot to speed things up. Or better yet, maybe you are smart and have some already cooked bacon in your freezer!) 
Season meat with paprika, cumin, thyme, salt and pepper. 
Add onions, carrots, and celery. 
Cook about 5 minutes to soften veggies, then add red pepper, broccoli, peas, and remaining crushed garlic. 
Cook 2 minutes. 
Put the bacon back in. 
Stir in flour (or starch), and cook and stir 2 minutes (to get rid of the flour taste). 
Add broth and ½ c. yogurt and bring to a low simmer. 
Preheat the oven to 375F. 
When the potatoes are tender, stir a ladle of the cooking water into one beaten egg in a small bowl. 
Drain the potatoes. You can leave them in the pot a few minutes to dry out a bit if you’re still working on all those veggies in the other pot! 
Smash the potatoes with butter, ½ c. yogurt (or sour cream), salt, pepper, and cottage cheese plus ¼ c. of the shredded cheddar. 
Add the egg mixture and stir well.  
Pour the meat mixture into an oval or 9×13 casserole dish (usually both, this recipe tends to grow like the loaves and fishes!). 
Top with potatoes and sprinkle the remaining ¼ c. cheddar cheese on top. 
You’ll likely need extra if you divided the meal into two pans. 
Bake 20 minutes until bubbly and the cheese is melted. 


START RECIPE

Sausage, Kale and Bean Soup Recipe 
Ingredients 
2 Tbs. Extra-virgin olive oil 
½ or 1 lb. bulk Italian sweet or hot sausage, or use homemade sausage seasoning and any ground meat 
1 medium onion, chopped 
2-3 carrots, chopped 
1 large potato, peeled and chopped 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
1 bay leaf 
2 cans white beans, drained and rinsed 
salt and pepper 
4 c. fresh kale (or other leafy green like spinach) 
2 quarts chicken broth or stock 
Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano or Romano, to pass at table 

Instructions 
Heat medium soup pot over medium-high heat (medium-low if using EVOO!). Add the oil and sausage and brown. 
Add veggies, bay leaf and beans. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Cook 5 minutes to soften veggies. 
Add greens and wilt. Add stock and cover. 
Raise heat and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes. Serve with grated cheese for topping. 
Notes 
Any ground meat can be transformed into homemade sausage with the right seasoning blend. Adjust spice to taste with cayenne. 

You can leave the peels on the potatoes for nutrients, especially if you have organic. 

Allow the crushed garlic to rest for 7 minutes before heating for optimal health benefits: don’t overcook. 


START RECIPE


Mexican Stuffed Peppers Recipe 
Ingredients 
3-5 bell peppers, green or colored, halved, seeds removed 
½ lb. ground beef (or a full pound) 
1 Tbs. taco seasoning (or follow package directions for ½ pound beef) 
1½ c. frozen corn (optional) 
2 c. black beans (prepared from dried or about 1 can) 
1 16 oz. jar salsa 
¼ c. diced red onion 
(optional) other vegetables: diced red pepper, zucchini, leafy greens, etc…anything you have on hand to enhance the mixture 
(optional) extra kidney beans or lentils to fill in for the missing ½ lb. ground beef 
(optional) up to 1 c. shredded cheddar or Mexican blend cheese 

Instructions 
Brown meat and add taco seasoning, following directions on packet or with seasoning recipe to make basic taco meat. 
If using a half pound ground beef, you might brown a whole pound and freeze the other half for an easy pasta meal the next week. 
Consider adding cooked lentils or kidney beans at this point and double the taco seasoning accordingly. 
Add all the other ingredients except the cheese and heat through on the stovetop. 
Be creative with the vegetables you have on hand: it’s hard to go wrong with a whole jar of salsa and some taco seasoning already in the mix! 
Meanwhile, use a steamer bet to steam the halved peppers for 5-10 minutes until somewhat softened but not cooked to death. 
Arrange in an oval or 9×13 casserole dish and “stuff” the filling into each pepper generously. 
This filling is a bit like the loaves and fishes: everything is suddenly full and there’s still more left !
I often end up with more filling than I need, which becomes great taco-style leftovers or freezes well for a future meal. 
After filling, top the peppers with shredded cheese and broil or bake at 350F for 5-10 minutes to brown the cheese. 


START RECIPE

Mexican Style Black Bean Burger Recipe 
Ingredients 
2 c. cooked black beans 
1½ c. cooked lentils 
½ small onion 
½ red pepper 
3 garlic cloves 
2 jalapenos or 2-3 tsp. cayenne (to taste!) 
¼ c. cilantro (or 2 tsp. dry) 
1½ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. pepper 
2 beaten eggs 
1+ c. bread crumbs 
Instructions 
Allow legumes to cool if you just cooked them. 
Whiz them in a food processor along with vegetables and cilantro. 
When mostly smooth, add salt and pepper, eggs and a cup of bread crumbs, then more bread crumbs bit by bit until a firm consistency is reached.
Roll into balls slightly larger than a golf ball, then flatten with the heel of your hand into patties. 
Cook in a greased skillet (preferably cast iron) about 5-8 minutes, turning at least once to keep even doneness. 

START RECIPE


Southwestern Pot Pie 
Ingredients 
1 Tbs. oil 
1 large onion chopped (1 cup) 
2 c. cubed sweet potatoes, peeled but raw 
1 jar 16 oz. salsa (2 cups) 
½ c. water 
¼ tsp. ground cinnamon 
1 small can corn or a cup of frozen corn 
1 can (15-16 oz.) garbanzo beans-drained, or 2 cups cooked beans 
Follow directions to make a half batch of soaked cornbread. 
Instructions 
Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a 4 quart Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 
Cook onion in oil about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until crisp-tender. 
Stir in sweet potatoes, salsa, water and cinnamon. 
Heat to boiling: reduce heat. 
Cover and simmer 20-25 minutes or until sweet potatoes are tender. 
Stir in corn and beans. 
Make a half batch of cornbread. Drop by large spoonfuls onto vegetable mixture. 
The original recipe said: Cover and simmer about 15 minutes more or until toothpick inserted into center of dumplings comes out clean. I decided to turn my oven on to 400 degrees and bake the whole pot for 15-20 minutes, and it was much more effective. 


START RECIPE


Hearty Lentil Stew Recipe 
Ingredients 
1 chopped onion 
2 stalks celery, sliced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 chopped green pepper (in my freezer) 
6 c. water 
1 c. barley 
1 c. dry lentils 
1 carrot, shredded 
2 c. tomato sauce 
2 Tbsp. apple cider vinegar 
2 Tbsp. soy sauce 
1 tsp. basil 
½ tsp. marjoram 
salt and pepper 
Instructions 
Sauté onion, celery, garlic, and green pepper in a large pot with a small amount of water or oil until softened. 
Add 6 cups water, barley, and lentils. 
Bring to a boil and reduce heat to low. 
Stir, cover and cook 30 minutes. 
Add all the remaining ingredients, stir, cover and cook 30 minutes. 

START RECIPE


Homemade Whole Grain Sourdough Pizza Dough Recipe 
Ingredients 
1.5 C sourdough starter 
2 T olive oil 
¾ t salt 
1 – 1.5 C whole wheat flour 
Equipment: 
Stand mixer or mixing bowl 
Baking sheet and a Silpat type non-stick baking mat OR baking stone 
Rolling Pin 
Plastic Wrap 
Instructions 
Mix the ingredients together, working in flour until you have a soft dough. If it gets too dry add more starter or water. 
Once kneaded for about 5 minutes, cover and let rest for 30-60 minutes. 
After resting, roll out the dough on your Silpat or baking stone. I then transfer the Silpat with the dough onto the baking sheet. Cover with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out and leave at room temperature for at least seven hours. The crust will rise some as it soaks. (You can also bake right away without the extra “soak” time.) 
(I make this recipe into one oblong pizza crust that fits on my Silpat in a jelly roll baking pan. Divide the dough as you desire to suit the baking equipment you have on hand.) And Katie is in love with her baking stone, always, for pizza! 
Seven or more hours later, heat the oven to 450 degrees F. Bake the crust for 5 minutes. Then add sauce and desired toppings to pizza. Put pizza back in oven for about 10 minutes or until the cheese is bubbly and starting to brown. And check out Sarah’s baking instructions for the way Katie likes her pizza nowadays. 

START RECIPE


Pepper Steak Recipe (a Real Food Rendition of Hubby’s Favorite Meal) 
Ingredients 
1-2 lbs. round steak, grassfed is best 
2-3 onions 
1-2 Tbs. molasses 
1 tsp. salt 
½ tsp. pepper 
2+ Tbs. cornstarch or arrowroot starch 
green pepper, cut into strips 
optional: tomato 
Instructions 
Cut meat into strips and brown in a large pot with olive oil or butter. 
Cut 2 onions into thin slices and add to meat, sauteing until translucent. Pour 1-2 Tbs molasses in and add salt and pepper. 
Cover with water, bring to a boil and simmer 1.5-2 hours. 
When the meat is practically falling apart, add strips of pepper, last onion cut into chunks, and optional tomato. 
Bring to a low boil. 
Mix cornstarch with cold water and add to hot liquid, stirring constantly until thick. 
Serve over cooked brown rice. 

START RECIPE


Recipe Connection: Wanna-be Lasagna Skillet Pasta 
Ingredients 
1 lb. (or ½ lb.) ground beef 
2 small or 1 large onion, chopped 
1 sweet pepper (red, yellow or orange), diced 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
~8 Roma tomatoes or ~4 whole tomatoes or 1 15-oz. can of diced tomatoes 
1 zucchini, chopped (optional) 
spinach or kale leaves, washed and cut 
handful of fresh parsley 
handful of fresh basil 
½ handful fresh oregano 
(you could substitute a few tsp. dried parsley and basil and 1 tsp. dried oregano) 
1 c. ricotta cheese 
shredded mozzarella cheese to top 

Instructions 
Brown ground beef with onion and pepper. 
Add garlic for the last minute. 
Throw in everything else other than the cheeses and cook, covered, until vegetables are done. 
Dollop ricotta on the top (do not stir) and finish off with mozzarella. 
Cover again over very low heat (or none) until cheese is melted. 
Serve over cooked pasta, any style.  You could even use lasagna noodles broken up for authenticity or use the same recipe and roll them up! 



START RECIPE


Recipe Connection: Puerto Rican Chicken 
Ingredients 
3 chicken breasts, cut in half 
1 tsp. garlic salt (or garlic powder mixed w/sea salt) 
1 tsp. onion salt (same as above works) 
1 tsp. oregano 
3 oz. Monterey Jack cheese, in 6 slices 
6 slices bacon 
2 tsp. vinegar 
2 tsp. olive oil 
dash of pepper 
Instructions 
Pound chicken to flatten. 
Stir together garlic salt, onion salt, oregano and pepper. 
Sprinkle half of the seasoning mixture over the chicken. 
Place a slice of cheese on each chicken piece and roll up the chicken around the cheese. 
Sprinkle with remaining seasoning mix. 
Wrap each chicken roll with a strip of bacon. 
Place in a small, shallow baking dish. 
Stir together vinegar and oil. 
Pour over chicken. 
Bake in a 375-degree oven for 1 hour or until golden. 

START RECIPE


Chicken Barley Leek Soup Recipe 

Ingredients 
1-2 Tbs. each butter and olive oil 
2 leeks 
2-4 carrots 
3-5 ribs celery 
4 oz. baby portobella (or white) mushrooms 
¼-1/2 tsp. bay leaf seasoning (or one bay leaf) 
1-2 tsp. thyme 
6 c. chicken broth 
2 c. cooked chicken 
½ c. barley* 

Instructions 
Slice and sauté vegetables in butter and olive oil about 5 minutes. 
Add seasonings and sauté a few more minutes. 
Add broth and barley. 
Bring to a boil and reduce heat to simmer until barley is done, about 30-45 minutes. If the barley soaks up too much broth, add more. 
Add chicken, 1 tsp salt and ½-1 tsp pepper. 

START RECIPE


Sausage Zucchini Bake Recipe 
Ingredients 
1 pound sausage, mild or spicy, or homemade 
1 chopped onion 
1 chopped green pepper 
1-3 cloves garlic, crushed 
1-2 large zucchini, sliced 
1 jar spaghetti sauce or 3 c. homemade 
1 Tbs. fresh basil, chopped 
1-2 Roma tomatoes, sliced 
2 c. shredded mozzarella cheese 
Parmesan cheese 
Instructions 
Brown sausage. 
Saute onion, pepper and garlic (add last) with the meat (in olive oil? See this post for research!). 
Pour a little spaghetti sauce in a 9x13 glass baking dish. 
Layer 1-2 large sliced zucchinis on top. 
Mix the remaining spaghetti sauce in a large bowl with the sauteed meat and veggies and the fresh basil. 
Pour over the zucchini. 
Layer sliced tomatoes (they don't have to be Romas, but those are prettier) on top, then cover with mozzarella cheese and Parmesan cheese. 
Cover and bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes, then uncover and bake for 15-30 minutes longer, until the cheese is browned and the sides are bubbling. 
Notes 

START RECIPE


California Chicken Wraps Recipe – Easy Weeknight Dinner 
Ingredients 
Tortillas (whole wheat or homemade) 
Mashed or sliced avocado 
Cooked shredded chicken 
Sliced cucumbers 
Sliced tomatoes 
Sliced red onion 
Homemade ranch dressing (+ cut cucumbers, optional) 
Shredded cheese 
Lettuce 

Instructions 
Chop some cucumbers and cover with ranch dressing: 
Stir and let sit while you cut everything else. 
Cook chicken if necessary and slice vegetables. 
Salt chicken and add a little Italian seasoning if you have it. 
Assemble wraps in order given. 
Roll tightly and grill on a George Foreman or in a very hot pan (dry, no Teflon), seam side down first. 
Turn once if in pan. 
Remove when tortillas are lightly browned. 

START RECIPE


Cancer Fighting Vegetable Soup Recipe with an Asian Twist 
Ingredients 
2-4 Tbs. fat 
2 medium onions, diced or sliced 
1 medium to large head of bok choy, separated 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
⅓ large head cabbage (about 2-3 cups shredded) 
2 large carrots, sliced or diced 
fresh ginger root, grated, to taste (1/2 inch or up to 3 inches) 
4 c. spinach or any other leafy green, finely chopped if you prefer 
5-6 c. beef broth, preferably homemade 
1½ tsp. Real Salt 
¼-1/2 tsp. pepper 
artichoke hearts, chopped (use ~9 hearts, which is about 1 15-oz. can, drained) 
2 c. cooked and cubed beef or venison 
⅓ lb. fresh or frozen broccoli (2 c.), chopped 
1 c. cauliflower, chopped 
1 5-oz. can water chestnuts, drained and diced or sliced 
soy sauce and grated Parmesan or Romano to serve 
Instructions 
In your favorite fat (tallow, refined coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) or extra virgin olive oil are good choices) over medium heat, saute onions for at least 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Press the garlic and set aside. 
Wash the bok choy well and dice the woody white parts of the stems. Reserve the leaves. Add to the saute for a few minutes while you slice the cabbage and carrots. 
When the onions and bok choy are translucent, add the cabbage, carrots, garlic and fresh ginger to taste. Stir around for a minute or two while chopping up the bok choy greens, then add the bok choy greens and any other greens you are using. Stir and cover for about a minute to wilt. (If you have green-o-phobes in the family, chop up the greens. Otherwise baby spinach leaves can just go in whole.) 
Pour in the beef broth and increase the heat to high. 
Add the salt, pepper, artichokes and meat. Cover the pot. 
Chop the broccoli and cauliflower (fresh or frozen for each works fine) and add to the pot along with the water chestnuts, cut to whatever size you prefer. (They will add a crunch, so if whole slices seem a bit large, cut into fourths or so.) 
When the broth comes to a boil, reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 5-15 minutes until all the vegetables are tender. 
Serve hot with soy sauce at the table. (You could add 2-4 Tbs. soy sauce into the soup right away instead, but I preferred to allow people to adjust that flavor to their own tastes. 
Add additional salt or put fresh grated Parmesan or Romano on top if it “needs a little something.” 

START RECIPE

Grain-Free Greek Main Dish Muffins 
Ingredients 
½ lb. ground beef 
1½ c. cooked chickpeas, divided 
½ tsp. salt 
¼ tsp. pepper 
½ c. chopped red pepper (optional) 
½ c. chopped onion (about 1 medium) 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
2-6 c. fresh spinach 
½-1 c. chopped broccoli, optional 
1 Tbs. lemon juice 
2 tsp. dried oregano 
½ c. feta cheese, plus more to top 
4 eggs 
chopped tomatoes for topping 
Instructions 
Brown the beef, seasoning with salt and pepper and adding onions and peppers for the last 5 minutes. 
While this is cooking, mash or food process 1 cup of the chickpeas (garbanzo beans). Also put muffin cup liners in your pan. You'll want them! Preheat the oven to 375F. 
When the onions are getting translucent, add the crushed garlic and fresh spinach, washed and roughly chopped, stirring over medium heat for 1-2 minutes until the spinach is all wilted. Turn off the heat. 
Alternate spinach methods: You could also very quickly steam the spinach separately OR use frozen spinach, about a pound package, but you'd need to thaw and thoroughly drain it first. 
Add chopped broccoli or any other veggies you want to sneak in there. 
In a medium sized bowl, beat the eggs, then mix in all the meat and veggie mixture, plus the additional half cup whole chickpeas, lemon juice, oregano, and feta cheese. If you added extra veggies, you may need an additional egg to compensate. 
Transfer to lined muffin cups with a heaping quarter cup measuring cup and gently press down with the bottom of the cup. 
Bake at 375F for 30-40 minutes or 15-20 for mini muffins. 
They're done when the egg is set. 
Serve with additional feta and chopped tomatoes on top. 
Makes 12 muffins or 24 mini muffins (or more if you add more veggies). 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup Recipe 
Ingredients 
1 Tbs. olive oil 
1 onion, diced 
1 green or red pepper, diced 
2 c. carrots, chopped/diced/shredded (whatever is easiest for you) 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
3 chicken breasts or thighs 
4 c. chicken stock 
2 (14 oz) cans diced tomatoes (or one home-canned quart) 
1 (7 oz) can tomato paste 
2 tsp. chili powder 
1 tsp. ground cumin 
1 tsp. ground coriander 
½ tsp. smoked paprika 
½ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. pepper 
Fresh limes for juice 
toppings: fresh cilantro, red or green onion, shredded cheese, avocado cubes, sour cream 
Instructions 
Instant Pot 
Turn the Instant Pot to Saute and heat the oil. 
Add the onion, peppers, and carrots and stir around for 5 minutes or so until they're starting to get translucent and fragrant. 
Add the garlic for about a minute, just until you can really smell it, stirring constantly. 
Add all remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the limes. 
Lock the lid in place and make sure the valve is closed. 
Hit Manual on high and set it for 5 minutes (it will take about 10 minutes for the pressure to build and then the 5 minute high pressure countdown will begin). If using frozen chicken breasts, add at least 10 minutes to the time. 
When the timer goes off, allow the pressure to naturally release for at least 10 minutes before initiating a quick release (flip the lever on the lid from seal to vent - be careful of the steam!). 
Check chicken for doneness (no pink!). It should be done, but if by chance it isn't, you can go for another 5 minutes on high pressure. It won't take as long to heat up, and then do a quick release and check again. 
Remove the chicken from the pot and shred with two forks. Return to the pot and stir. 
To serve, squeeze lime juice into each bowl or offer lime wedges at the table along with the optional toppings. 
Stove Top 
In a large pot over medium heat, heat the oil. 
Add the onion, peppers, and carrots and stir around for 5-10 minutes or so until they're starting to get translucent and fragrant. 
Add the garlic for about a minute, just until you can really smell it, stirring constantly. 
Add all remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the limes. 
Turn the heat to high with the lid on. 
Once a rolling boil is reached, turn the heat down to medium-low and cook for 15-20 minutes with the lid on. 
Check chicken for doneness (no pink!). 
Remove the chicken from the pot and cut into pieces with a knife and fork. Return to the pot and stir. 
To serve, squeeze lime juice into each bowl or offer lime wedges at the table along with the optional toppings. 

START RECIPE

Grain-Free Greek Main Dish Muffins 
Ingredients 
½ lb. ground beef 
1½ c. cooked chickpeas, divided 
½ tsp. salt 
¼ tsp. pepper 
½ c. chopped red pepper (optional) 
½ c. chopped onion (about 1 medium) 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
2-6 c. fresh spinach 
½-1 c. chopped broccoli, optional 
1 Tbs. lemon juice 
2 tsp. dried oregano 
½ c. feta cheese, plus more to top 
4 eggs 
chopped tomatoes for topping 
Instructions 
Brown the beef, seasoning with salt and pepper and adding onions and peppers for the last 5 minutes. 
While this is cooking, mash or food process 1 cup of the chickpeas (garbanzo beans). Also put muffin cup liners in your pan. You'll want them! Preheat the oven to 375F. 
When the onions are getting translucent, add the crushed garlic and fresh spinach, washed and roughly chopped, stirring over medium heat for 1-2 minutes until the spinach is all wilted. Turn off the heat. 
Alternate spinach methods: You could also very quickly steam the spinach separately OR use frozen spinach, about a pound package, but you'd need to thaw and thoroughly drain it first. 
Add chopped broccoli or any other veggies you want to sneak in there. 
In a medium sized bowl, beat the eggs, then mix in all the meat and veggie mixture, plus the additional half cup whole chickpeas, lemon juice, oregano, and feta cheese. If you added extra veggies, you may need an additional egg to compensate. 
Transfer to lined muffin cups with a heaping quarter cup measuring cup and gently press down with the bottom of the cup. 
Bake at 375F for 30-40 minutes or 15-20 for mini muffins. 
They're done when the egg is set. 
Serve with additional feta and chopped tomatoes on top. 
Makes 12 muffins or 24 mini muffins (or more if you add more veggies). 


START RECIPE

Easy Oven-Roasted Chicken {with Bonus Health Benefits} 
Ingredients 
2 tsp. paprika 
1 tsp.Real Salt 
1 tsp. dried minced onion + 1 Tbs. more 
1 tsp. thyme, ground or dried 
1 tsp. turmeric 
½ tsp. garlic powder 
¼ tsp. cayenne (red) pepper 
¼ tsp. black pepper 
1 whole chicken, about 4-5 pounds is good 

Instructions 
Preheat over to 325F. 
Mix spices in a small bowl first (less the 1 Tbs. minced onion). 
Place the whole chicken right into a deep covered baking dish. Season the bottom of the chicken, then turn over into your baking dish and season the breast side and inside cavity. 
Sprinkle minced onion on top (or use a real onion, but sometimes I don't want to get a knife and cutting board out). 
Cover the baking dish and bake 20-30 minutes per pound or until inner temp is 160F. 
Allow a 5-10 minute rest before carving, during which time the internal temperature should raise to 165F. 

START RECIPE

Steak Fajita Soup Recipe and Health Benefits of Onions 
Ingredients 
4 cloves garlic, crushed 
2-4 Tbs. tallow, ghee, coconut oil or other fat 
2 medium onions, 1 diced, 1 sliced 
1 green pepper, sliced 
1 red (or other color) pepper, sliced 
1 Tbs. salt 
1 tsp. cumin 
1 tsp. Mexican oregano 
1 Tbs. taco seasoning 
2-3 c. cooked beef or chicken 
15 oz. diced tomatoes with juice 
optional: 2 Tbs. tomato paste or 1 cup tomato sauce 
2 c. cooked brown rice 
6 c. beef or chicken stock 
Toppings to serve with: 
sour cream 
guacamole or avocado slices 
chopped red onion 
sliced sweet white onion 
shredded cheese 
fresh or pickled jalapenos 
tortilla chips 
squeeze of lime 
fresh cilantro 

Instructions 
Crush your garlic and allow it to sit while you work to activate its health qualities. 
In a large pot, melt the fat over medium heat. Dice one of the onions and add it at this time. The other onion will be sliced and added into the broth, which will have more of a “boiled onion” taste and look more like fajitas because of the long slices. If that's not your thing, you could dice half or all of the second onion and put it in the saute. 
Slice the two peppers and add them to the saute, over medium heat until limp and/or browned, depending on your preference. Add the garlic, salt, cumin, oregano, and taco seasoning and stir for a minute. Add the cooked beef and stir another minute. 
Pour in all the tomatoes and optional sauce, the rice, the remaining onion, sliced, and the broth. You can use 4 cups broth for a very thick “stoup” or up to 8 cups to stretch the soup further. Eye it up.
Bring to a boil and it's ready to serve.
Choose some of the topping options for the presentation. I like to serve quesadillas to dip with this soup, and a side of homemade refried beans, salsa, guacamole, or Mexican beans and rice is a good fit for this meal. If you're not yet making homemade whole wheat tortillas, cornbread or tortilla chips are nice sides as well. 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup Recipe 
Ingredients 
1 Tbs. olive oil 
1 onion, diced 
1 green or red pepper, diced 
2 c. carrots, chopped/diced/shredded (whatever is easiest for you) 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
3 chicken breasts or thighs 
4 c. chicken stock 
2 (14 oz) cans diced tomatoes (or one home-canned quart) 
1 (7 oz) can tomato paste 
2 tsp. chili powder 
1 tsp. ground cumin 
1 tsp. ground coriander 
½ tsp. smoked paprika 
½ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. pepper 
Fresh limes for juice 
toppings: fresh cilantro, red or green onion, shredded cheese, avocado cubes, sour cream 
Instructions 
Instant Pot 
Turn the Instant Pot to Saute and heat the oil. 
Add the onion, peppers, and carrots and stir around for 5 minutes or so until they're starting to get translucent and fragrant. 
Add the garlic for about a minute, just until you can really smell it, stirring constantly. 
Add all remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the limes. 
Lock the lid in place and make sure the valve is closed. 
Hit Manual on high and set it for 5 minutes (it will take about 10 minutes for the pressure to build and then the 5 minute high pressure countdown will begin). If using frozen chicken breasts, add at least 10 minutes to the time. 
When the timer goes off, allow the pressure to naturally release for at least 10 minutes before initiating a quick release (flip the lever on the lid from seal to vent - be careful of the steam!). 
Check chicken for doneness (no pink!). It should be done, but if by chance it isn't, you can go for another 5 minutes on high pressure. It won't take as long to heat up, and then do a quick release and check again. 
Remove the chicken from the pot and shred with two forks. Return to the pot and stir. 
To serve, squeeze lime juice into each bowl or offer lime wedges at the table along with the optional toppings. 
Stove Top 
In a large pot over medium heat, heat the oil. 
Add the onion, peppers, and carrots and stir around for 5-10 minutes or so until they're starting to get translucent and fragrant. 
Add the garlic for about a minute, just until you can really smell it, stirring constantly. 
Add all remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the limes. 
Turn the heat to high with the lid on. 
Once a rolling boil is reached, turn the heat down to medium-low and cook for 15-20 minutes with the lid on. 
Check chicken for doneness (no pink!). 
Remove the chicken from the pot and cut into pieces with a knife and fork. Return to the pot and stir. 
To serve, squeeze lime juice into each bowl or offer lime wedges at the table along with the optional toppings. 

START RECIPE

Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken 
Ingredients 
1 can full fat coconut milk 
¼ c. lemon juice 
1 Tbs. curry powder 
1 tsp. turmeric 
½ tsp. salt 
about 4 lbs. chicken - breasts, thighs, or a combo (whatever you have) 
optional: ½-1 tsp. lemon zest 
Instructions 
Mix the coconut milk, lemon juice and spices together in a bowl or glass measuring cup. (Don't worry about incorporating that large chunk of coconut cream from the top of the can of coconut milk: just mix the liquidy part together.) 
Pour a little bit on the bottom of the Instant Pot. 
Add the chicken. 
Pour in the rest, including the coconut cream chunk if you've got one, on top of the chicken. 
Lock in the lid and close the valve. 
Turn the IP to poultry which should be 15 minutes at high pressure. 
If working with frozen chicken breasts, add 10 minutes to the cook time and you should be fine (although I haven't tested this yet). 
It will take about 20 minutes to get to pressure. 
After the 15 minute cook time, use the quick release by opening the valve. 
Test chicken for doneness by cutting open and observing the center (if you see any pink, turn the IP back on for another 5-10 minutes on manual high pressure - it will heat up much quicker because everything is already so hot). 
Use 2 forks to shred the chicken up in the pot (or remove to a plate if you're having trouble getting it all in the pot). 
Optional: Add ½-1 tsp. lemon zest after cooking. 
Serve with steamed or roasted veggies or over rice. 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Italian Lentil Dinner (Gluten-Free, One-Pot Meal!) 
Ingredients 
¾ c. dry green lentils 
½ c. brown rice 
2½ c. homemade chicken stock (add another cup if not soaking) 
1 c. tomato sauce (8 oz. can) or 1 6-oz. can tomato paste + and extra ½ c. stock (or if you've got some spaghetti sauce open, just use a cup of that!) 
¾ c. chopped onion or ¼ c. dried minced onion 
1 c. chopped green and/or red pepper 
2 large or 3 medium carrots, chopped 
2 c. cooked, shredded chicken 
a few big handfuls of greens 
optional: other vegetables like broccoli, zucchini, green beans (frozen is fine!) 
3 tsp. Italian seasoning 
2 cloves crushed garlic or ½ tsp. garlic powder 
½ tsp. salt 
1 c. shredded mozzarella cheese 
Instructions 
Combine rice and lentils in the Instant Pot or a separate bowl and cover with water. 
Allow to soak overnight with the machine turned off (or in the bowl, covered). 
Note: If you're not soaking, add another cup of broth to the recipe. 
Drain the water off, then add all the other ingredients except the cheese to the Instant Pot and mix well. 
Set the IP to poultry which will cook at high pressure for 15 minutes (you could also do this manually). 
Click in the lid and make sure the valve is closed. 
When the time is up, use the quick release. After the pin goes down (usually about 2 minutes), give the whole appliance a little jiggle to release any potential pockets of steam trapped in the thick food. You can also do a natural release (ignore it for 15 minutes) and the food won't be overcooked. 
Add the cheese on top and wait 10 minutes on warm to melt it with the lid on or stir it in to melt almost immediately. 
Serve with optional warmed spaghetti sauce on top. 


START RECIPE
Sweet Potato, Spinach, Farro and Poached Egg Breakfast Bowl 
INGREDIENTS 
3 small sweet potatoes, peeled & diced 
1 tsp white vinegar 
1 tbsp olive oil 
1 small shallot, diced 
Handful of grape tomatoes 
2 cups baby spinach 
ј cup cooked farro 
1 clove of garlic, minced 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Place the diced sweet potato in a pot of salted boiling water over medium high heat. 
Cook for 8 minutes: drain. 
Place the drained sweet potatoes on a paper towel to remove any excess water. 
While the sweet potatoes are boiling, heat 1 Ѕ inches of water and 1 teaspoon of white vinegar in another medium sized saucepan and bring to a simmer. 
Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium high heat. 
Add the sweet potatoes and cook, without stirring for 2 minutes. 
Toss with a spatula and add the shallot and tomatoes. Cook, stirring occasionally for 3-4 minutes. 
Add the spinach, minced garlic, and crushed red pepper flakes then cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. 
Remove from the heat and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
When the sweet potatoes and veggies are nearly finished sauteing, break 1 egg into a small ramekin. 
Once the medium saucepan of water is at a simmer, stir the water with the bottom of your slotted spoon clockwise to make a swirling motion in the water. 
Quickly and carefully slide egg into the water. Cover and turn stove off. 
Poach until whites are firm and yolks are still runny, 3 minutes and 45 seconds to 4 minutes. 
Remove the egg using a slotted spoon and drain a bit over the pan. 
Serve the sweet potato and veggies in a bowl topped with the poached egg. 
Season the egg with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Serve immediately. Enjoy!!! 

START RECIPE
Veggie, Potato, and Gruyere Egg Casserole 

INGREDIENTS 
2-3 tsp olive oil 
Ѕ small sweet yellow onion, diced 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes, to taste 
5 stalks of asparagus, wooden ends removed and cut into thirds 
5 grape tomatoes, halved 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1Ѕ cups baby spinach, chopped 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
6 large eggs 
Ѕ cup milk 
1Ѕ cups frozen diced potatoes O'Brian (you don’t have to thaw or cook the potatoes) 
1 cup Gruyere cheese, shredded, divided 
Sour cream 
Hot sauce 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat an 8Ч8 baking dish with cooking spray. 
Heat the olive oil in a large saute pan over medium heat. 
Add the onion and crushed red pepper flakes, to taste, to the skillet and cook until tender, about 2-3 minutes. 
Add the asparagus and cook for 1 minute. 
Add the tomatoes, and garlic, and cook for 1 minute, stirring constantly. 
Add the spinach then immediately remove from heat. 
Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Set aside to cool. 
In a large bowl, whisk the eggs together with the milk: season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Stir in the cooled cooked vegetables, frozen potatoes, and most of the shredded cheese. 
Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish and top with the remaining cheese. 
Place into the oven and bake for 40-45 minutes, or until the eggs are firm and the top is slightly golden brown. 
Let stand for 10 minutes before cutting and serving. 
Serve with sour cream and hot sauce on the side. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Eggs in Garlicky Tomato Sauce with Brie 
INGREDIENTS 
1 tbsp olive oil 
ј sweet yellow onion, diced 
Crushed red pepper flakes, to taste 
2 cloves of garlic, cut into thin slivers 
3 small tomatoes, diced 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Pinch of sugar, to taste 
3-4 eggs 
Brie, sliced 
Fresh parsley, chopped 
Sourdough bread slices, grilled or toasted and buttered 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat. 
Add the diced onion and crushed red pepper flakes then cook, stirring often, for 3-4 minutes. 
Add the slivered garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. 
Add the diced tomatoes and their juices. Cook, stirring often for 20 minutes. 
Taste and season with sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, and a bit of sugar, to taste. 
Make three or four wells in the tomatoes with the back of your spoon. 
Crack an egg into each well and cover with a lid. 
Cook until the egg whites are set and the yolks are still soft, about 3-4 minutes. 
Season the eggs with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Top with slices of brie and fresh parsley. 
Serve immediately with grilled or toasted sourdough bread. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Bacon, Asparagus, and Mushroom Quiche with Gruyere and Fontina 
INGREDIENTS 
3 slices of bacon, diced & cooked 
Handful of mushrooms, quartered 
5 asparagus spears, wooden ends removed & cut into thirds 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
1 pre-made pie crust, unrolled 
ѕ cup Gruyere cheese, shredded 
ѕ cup Fontina cheese, shredded 
5 eggs 
1Ѕ cups milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. 
Cook the bacon pieces in a skillet over medium heat until crisp and cooked. 
Place on a paper towel to drain grease. 
Remove all but one teaspoon of bacon grease from the skillet. 
Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, for 3 minutes. 
Add the asparagus spears and crushed red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, for 1 minute. Remove from the heat. 
Coat a pie pan with cooking spray then carefully unroll the pre-made pie crust and place it in the pie pan. Crimp the edges. 
Combine the eggs, milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, together in a bowl and whisk until very well combined. 
Sprinkle most of the crumbled bacon, most of the mushrooms & asparagus, and some of the shredded gruyere and fontina cheese, and green onion in the bottom of the pie. 
Add the well whisked egg mixture. 
Sprinkle with the remaining bacon, mushrooms &asparagus, and cheese on top. 
Carefully place into the oven and bake for 40 minutes, or until the top is set and not wiggly and the eggs are cooked through. Don’t overcook! 
Let the quiche cool for at least 15 minutes before slicing and serving. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Roasted Veggie and Baby Potato Hash with a Poached Egg 
INGREDIENTS 
1Ѕ cups tiny baby potatoes 
Ѕ small sweet yellow onion, chopped 
1 clove of garlic, slivered 
1 tbsp olive oil 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
Sea salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
4-5 asparagus spears, ends removed & cut into bite sized pieces 
Handful of grape tomatoes 
1 cup baby spinach 
1 tsp vinegar (for poached egg) 
1 egg 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat a cast iron skillet with olive oil cooking spray. 
Season the baby potatoes, onion, and garlic slivers with olive oil and crushed red pepper flakes, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste: toss to coat evenly. 
Pour into the prepared cast iron skillet. 
Place into the oven and roast for 10 minutes. 
Flip potatoes with a spatula then continue to roast for another 10-15 minutes. 
Add the asparagus and tomatoes and continue to roast, making sure to flip with a spatula every 5 minutes, until golden brown and fork tender, about 10 minutes. 
Remove from the oven and add the spinach to the skillet, stirring gently for a minute or two, until wilted. 
While the veggies are roasting, heat 1 Ѕ inches of water and 1 teaspoon of white vinegar in a wide medium sized saucepan and bring to a simmer. 
When you remove the veggies from the oven, break 1 egg into a small ramekin. 
Once the water is at a simmer, stir the water with the bottom of your slotted spoon clockwise to make a swirling motion in the water. 
Quickly and carefully slide egg into the water. 
Cover and turn stove off. 
Poach until whites are firm and yolks are still runny, 3 minutes and 45 seconds to 4 minutes. Remove the egg using a slotted spoon and drain a bit over the pan. 
Serve the roasted veggie and baby potato hash in a bowl topped with the poached egg. Season the egg with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Serve immediately. Enjoy!!! 
Side Note: To cut down on the roasting time for the potatoes, par cook them in boiling water for 7 minutes before roasting. 

START RECIPE
Roasted Bacon 
INGREDIENTS 
10 slices of thick cut bacon 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Line a baking sheet with tin foil (for easier cleanup). 
Lay the bacon on the prepared baking sheet and bake for 15 minutes then carefully flip over, if needed, and continue to cook for 5 minutes, or until the bacon is evenly cooked and crispy. Place on paper towels to soak up the excess grease. Serve and enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Brown Butter Zucchini Coffee Cake AND Giveaway Winner!! 
INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE CAKE: 
8 tbsp unsalted butter 
2Ѕ cups flour 
1 cup packed brown sugar 
1Ѕ tsp ground cinnamon 
1 tsp baking soda 
Ѕ tsp salt 
ј tsp ground nutmeg 
1 cup plain Greek yogurt 
1 large egg 
1 vanilla bean, split & seeds scraped 
1Ѕ cups shredded zucchini (2 large) 

BROWN BUTTER STREUSEL TOPPING: 
4 tbsp unsalted butter 
Ѕ cup flour 
Ѕ cup packed brown sugar 
Ѕ tsp ground cinnamon 

CINNAMON GLAZE: 
1 cup powdered sugar 
2 tbsp milk 
Ѕ tsp vanilla extract 
Pinch of ground cinnamon, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a 9 x 13 baking dish with cooking spray. 
Heat the 8 tablespoons of butter for the cake in a small saucepan over medium heat. 
Cook, swirling occasionally, until butter has a nutty aroma and is golden brown. Be careful not to burn the butter! 
Pour browned butter into a small bowl and set aside to cool to room temperature. 
In the same pan, heat the remaining 4 tablespoons of butter for the streusel topping over medium heat.
Cook, swirling occasionally, until butter has a nutty aroma and is golden brown. Be careful not to burn the butter! 
Pour browned butter into a separate small bowl and set aside to cool to room temperature. 
Make the cake by combining the flour, brown sugar, cinnamon, baking soda, nutmeg, and salt together in a large bowl: mix well. 
Split the vanilla bean pod in half with a knife. 
Using the back of the knife, scrape the inside of the vanilla bean pod to remove the seeds. 
Combine the cooled browned butter for the cake (8 tablespoons) together with the Greek yogurt, egg, and the scraped vanilla bean seeds: mix until well combined. 
Pour the liquid mixture into the dry mixture and mix until just combined. It will be very thick! Add a couple tablespoons of milk, if needed. 
Add the zucchini and stir until combined. 
Pour the cake batter into the prepared baking dish. 
Make the streusel by combining the remaining 4 tablespoons of cooled brown butter with the flour and brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl. 
Mix together until crumbly. 
Sprinkle streusel topping evenly over the cake. 
Place into the oven and bake for 30-35 minutes or until a tester inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean. 
Remove from the oven and let cool on wire rack completely. 
Make the cinnamon glaze by combining the powdered sugar, milk, vanilla extract, and cinnamon together: stir until well combined. 
Drizzle over the cooled zucchini coffee cake. Slice and serve. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE
Asparagus and Gruyere Quiche 
INGREDIENTS 
1 pre-made pie crust 
7-8 spears of asparagus, trimmed & chopped (3 trimmed but left whole for top) 
Gruyere cheese, shredded 
5 eggs 
1Ѕ cups milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. 
Coat a pie pan with cooking spray then carefully unroll the pre-made pie crust and place it in the pie pan. Crimp the edges. 
Combine the eggs, milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, together in a bowl and whisk until very well combined. 
Sprinkle most of the chopped asparagus and Gruyere cheese in the bottom of the pie. 
Add the well whisked egg mixture. 
Sprinkle the remaining chopped asparagus and Gruyere cheese, then top with three trimmed whole asparagus spears, if desired. 
Carefully place into the oven and bake for 40-45 minutes, or until the top is set and not wiggly and the eggs are cooked through. Don’t overcook! 
Let the quiche cool for at least 15 minutes before slicing and serving. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Strawberry, Peach, and Pear Smoothie 
INGREDIENTS 
1Ѕ cups of ice 
1 cup of R.W. Knudsen Organic Pear Juice 
1 cup of fresh strawberries, hulled 
2 peaches, peeled & chopped 
? cup Greek yogurt 
Agave syrup, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Add the ice, pear juice, hulled strawberries, peeled & chopped peaches, Greek yogurt, and agave, to taste, together in a powerful blender. 
Blend until smooth and creamy. 
Serve garnished with strawberries and a straw. 
Enjoy!! 

START RECIPE
Breakfast Quesadilla 
INGREDIENTS 
2 small flour tortillas 
Sharp cheddar cheese, shredded 
Hot sauce, to taste 
1 egg 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
ј avocado, sliced 
Green onion, sliced 
Tomatoes, diced 
Fresh cilantro leaves 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat a large skillet over medium heat. 
Place the cheese evenly on one tortilla then drizzle with your favorite hot sauce. 
Top with the remaining tortilla and place into the hot skillet. 
Cook until golden brown, about 3 minutes, before flipping over and cooking the other side for 2 minutes or until golden brown. 
Remove from the skillet and place on a cutting board. Cut into four wedges and place on a plate. 
Once the quesadilla is cooking on the second side, heat a small skillet that is coated with cooking spray over medium heat. 
Crack the egg into the pan and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Once the white of the egg is no longer transparent, add a tablespoon of water to the pan and cover with a lid. 
Cook for about 1 minute or until the yolk is clouded over. Do not overcook or the yolk will be hard. 
Serve the steamed egg on top of the quesadilla then top with avocado slices, green onion, diced tomato, and fresh cilantro. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Butternut Squash and Baby Potato Hash with a Poached Egg 
INGREDIENTS 
ѕ cup butternut squash, diced 
ѕ cup tiny baby potatoes 
Ѕ small sweet yellow onion, chopped 
1 clove of garlic, slivered 
1 tbsp olive oil 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
Sea salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
1 cup baby spinach 
1 tsp vinegar (for poached egg) 
1 egg 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat a cast iron skillet with olive oil cooking spray. 
Season the butternut squash, baby potatoes, onion, and garlic slivers with olive oil and crushed red pepper flakes, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste: toss to coat evenly. 
Pour into the prepared cast iron skillet. 
Place into the oven and roast for 10 minutes. 
Flip veggies with a spatula then continue to roast for another 20 minutes or so, making sure to flip with a spatula every 5 minutes, until golden brown and fork tender. 
Remove from the oven and add the spinach to the skillet, stirring gently for a minute or two, until wilted. 
While the veggies are roasting, heat 1 Ѕ inches of water and 1 teaspoon of white vinegar in a wide medium sized saucepan and bring to a simmer. 
When you remove the veggies from the oven, break 1 egg into a small ramekin. 
Once the water is at a simmer, stir the water with the bottom of your slotted spoon clockwise to make a swirling motion in the water. 
Quickly and carefully slide egg into the water. 
Cover and turn stove off. 
Poach until whites are firm and yolks are still runny, 3 minutes and 45 seconds to 4 minutes. 
Remove the egg using a slotted spoon and drain a bit over the pan. 
Serve the butternut squash and baby potato hash in a bowl topped with the poached egg. 
Season the egg with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Serve immediately. Enjoy!!! 

START RECIPE

Bacon, Potato, Mushroom and Egg Casserole 
INGREDIENTS 
6 slices of lean bacon, cut into bits 
Ѕ sweet yellow onion, diced 
1 cup mushrooms, sliced 
Ѕ cup baby spinach, chopped 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
6 large eggs 
Ѕ cup milk 
1Ѕ cups frozen diced potatoes O'Brian (you don’t have to thaw or cook the potatoes) 
1 cup sharp cheddar cheese, shredded, divided 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
2 green onions, chopped 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat an 8x8 baking dish with cooking spray. 
In a large skillet, cook bacon pieces over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until slightly crisp. Remove bacon pieces with a slotted spoon and place on a paper towel lined plate to drain. 
Remove all but 1-2 teaspoons of bacon grease from the skillet. 
Add the onion to the skillet and cook over medium heat until tender, about 3 minutes. 
Add the mushrooms and cook until golden, about 4 minutes. 
Add the spinach and minced garlic then cook for 1 minute, stirring constantly. 
Remove from the heat and set aside to cool slightly. 
In a large bowl, whisk the eggs together with the milk. 
Stir in the cooled cooked vegetables, frozen potatoes, and most of the shredded cheese. 
Add all but a small handful of bacon to the mixture and stir until well combined. 
Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish and top with the remaining cheese. 
Place into the oven and bake for 30 minutes so the eggs start to set up. 
Carefully add the remaining bacon to the top of the casserole. 
Bake for an additional 10-15 minutes, or until the eggs are firm and the top is slightly golden brown. 
Let stand for 10 minutes before cutting and serving with green onions on top, if desired. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Pork Chilaquiles 
INGREDIENTS 
2 corn tortillas 
1-2 tsp vegetable oil 
? cup salsa verde 
Ѕ cup shredded Cuban pork roast 
Fresh cilantro leaves 
Avocado, diced 
Tomato, diced 
Jalapeno, diced 
Pickled Onions 
Cotija cheese, crumbled 
Serve with lime wedges, hot sauce, and sour cream if desired 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Click link up above for the Cuban Pork Roast recipe. 
Click link up above for the Quick Pickled Onion recipe 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat the center of a baking sheet with olive oil cooking spray. Sprinkle some sea salt over the baking sheet. 
Brush a bit of vegetable oil lightly over both sides of each tortilla. 
Stack the tortillas then cut them into halves then quarters. 
Place them on the prepared baking sheet. Season the top of the tortilla chips with sea salt, to taste. 
Bake until the tortilla chips begin to sizzle and turn brown and crisp, about 4-5 minutes. 
Flip each chip over then rotate the pan and continue to bake until the chips are crisp and golden brown, about 2-3 minutes more. 
Side Note: Be careful and keep an eye on the chips while they bake because they can burn quickly. 
Heat the salsa verde in a cast iron skillet over medium heat. Add the pork and cook until warmed through, about 2 minutes. 
Add the baked chips and quickly coat with sauce. 
Top with lots of fresh cilantro, avocado, tomato, jalapeno, pickled onion, and cotija cheese. 
Serve immediately for crisper chips. Enjoy! 

START RECIPE
Brie and Bacon Quiche 
INGREDIENTS 
1 lb tube of pork breakfast sausage 
? cup flour 
3 cups of milk, more if needed 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Biscuits, cooked per instructions 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Pinch the sausage from the tube into bite sized pieces and place into a single layer in a large skillet over medium high heat: cook until no longer pink, making sure to break up the sausage into small crumbles as it cooks. 
Sprinkle the flour over the sausage and stir until completely combined. 
Cook for a minute or two before slowly adding the milk while stirring constantly. 
Cook the gravy, stirring often, until it thickens. 
Taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Turn off the heat and the gravy will thicken as it cools. Serve over hot biscuits. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE
Eggnog French Toast 
INGREDIENTS 
1 cup of eggnog 
2 eggs 
Ѕ tsp vanilla 
Ѕ tsp cinnamon 
Dash of nutmeg 
8 slices of cinnamon bread 
Serve with butter, powdered sugar, fresh raspberries, and maple syrup, if desired 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Whisk the eggnog with the two eggs, vanilla, cinnamon, and dash of nutmeg until thoroughly combined. 
Heat a griddle (or a non stick skillet) over medium heat. Coat the griddle with coconut oil cooking spray. 
Dip each slice of cinnamon bread into the eggnog mixture then place on the hot griddle. 
Cook for 2-3 minutes, or until golden brown and carefully flip each piece of bread. 
Continue to cook for another 1-2 minutes, or until golden. 
Remove to a serving plate. 
Serve with butter, powdered sugar, fresh raspberries, and maple syrup. Enjoy! 

START RECIPE
Buttermilk Waffles 
INGREDIENTS 
2 cups flour 
1 tsp salt 
Ѕ tsp baking soda 
Ѕ tsp cinnamon 
2 large eggs, separated 
1ѕ cup buttermilk 
4 tbsp melted butter, cooled 
Ѕ tsp vanilla 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat a waffle iron. 
Whisk together the flour, salt, baking soda, and cinnamon together in a large mixing bowl, until well combined. 
Whisk together the egg yolk, buttermilk, cooled melted butter, and vanilla in a small bowl, until well combined.. 
In a separate bowl, beat or whisk the egg whites until it just holds a 2-inch peak. 
Slowly add the liquid ingredients to the dry ingredients in a thin, steady stream while mixing gently with a rubber spatula. 
Side Note: Do not add liquid faster than you can incorporate it into the batter. 
Toward the end of mixing, use a folding motion to incorporate the ingredients. 
Gently ford the egg white into the batter. Set aside for a few minutes. 
Spray the hot waffle iron well with coconut oil cooking spray. 
Spread an appropriate amount of batter onto the waffle iron. 
Following your waffle iron's instructions, cook the waffle until golden brown, 2-5 minutes. 
Serve immediately with butter, syrup, and jam, if desired. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Homemade Cheesy Potato Casserole 
INGREDIENTS 
4 large russet potatoes, peeled 
3 tbsp butter, 
Ѕ cup sweet yellow onion, diced small 
2 clove garlic, minced 
2Ѕ tbsp all-Purpose flour 
Ѕ cup chicken broth 
Ѕ cup whole milk 
1 cup sour cream 
3 green onions, sliced 
1 cup Colby Jack cheese, shredded 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Peel the russet potatoes. 
Slice them into planks, then strips and dice into bite sized cubes. 
Place the cubed potatoes into a pot of water, bring to a boil and cook for 8 minutes. 
Remove and drain the potatoes in a colander then side aside to let them cool. 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a 9 x 13 baking dish with butter or cooking spray. 
Melt the butter over medium heat then add the diced onions. 
Cook for a few minutes, stirring occasionally, until softened. 
Add the minced garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. 
Sprinkle in the flour and stir, cooking for 2-3 minutes. 
Very slowly, pour in the half cup of broth and half cup of whole milk, while whisking. 
Continue to stir until thickened, about 6-8 minutes. 
Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Remove from the heat. 
Add the cooked and drained potatoes to the saucepan with the thickened gravy along with the sour cream, colby cheese, and green onions. 
Stir until well combined: taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Pour into the prepared baking dish. 
Place into the oven and bake in the oven for 1 hour or until bubbly and lightly golden. 
Remove from the oven and let cool for about 15-20 minutes before serving. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Creamed Chipped Beef on Toast (S.O.S.) 
INGREDIENTS 
1 jar of dried beef slices, rinsed well & chopped 
4 tbsp butter 
4 tbsp flour 
Pinch of cayenne 
2 cups milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Bread, toasted 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Rinse the slices of dried beef really well - they are VERY salty! Once you have rinsed well, pat dry with a paper towel. 
Chop the beef into small bite sized pieces. Set aside. 
Heat the butter in the a large saucepan over medium heat. 
Add the flour and pinch of cayenne pepper to the melted butter and whisk until well combined and cooked through, about 45 seconds. 
Very slowly add the milk while whisking continually. 
Once the milk has all been added, add the cut dried beef. 
Cook, stirring occasionally, for a few minutes until thickened. 
Taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, if needed. 
Serve on top of dry toast immediately. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE

Broccoli, Extra Sharp Cheddar, and Bacon Quiche 
INGREDIENTS 
2 cups broccoli florets, steamed until for tender, then chopped coarsely 
2 slices of bacon, cooked & crumbled 
1-2 tsp olive oil (or bacon grease) 
Ѕ sweet yellow onion, finely diced 
1 pre-made pie crust, unrolled 
1Ѕ cup extra sharp white cheddar, shredded 
5 eggs 
1Ѕ cups milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. 
Steam the broccoli in a steamer over boiling water for a couple of minutes, or until fork tender. 
While the broccoli is steaming, cook the bacon in a skillet over medium heat until crisp and cooked. Place on a paper towel to drain grease then cut into crumbles. 
Remove all but 1-2 teaspoons of bacon grease from the skillet (or use olive oil) then add the onion. Cook, stirring often, for 4-5 minutes, or until softened and golden brown. 
Coat a pie pan with cooking spray then carefully unroll the pre-made pie crust and place it in the pie pan. Crimp the edges. 
Combine the eggs, milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, together in a bowl and whisk until very well combined. 
Sprinkle most of the chopped steamed broccoli, onions, crumbled bacon, and extra sharp cheddar in the bottom of the pie. 
Add the well whisked egg mixture. 
Sprinkle the remaining broccoli, bacon, cheese, and caramelized onions on top. 
Carefully place into the oven and bake for 40 minutes, or until the top is set and not wiggly and the eggs are cooked through. Don’t overcook! 
Let the quiche cool for at least 15 minutes before slicing and serving. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Soft Boiled Egg with Buttery Toast “Soldiers” 
INGREDIENTS 
1 egg 
1 piece of bread, toasted 
Butter, to taste 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, if desired 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat an inch of water in a small saucepan over medium high heat until boiling. 
Add the egg, reduce the heat to medium, and cover with a lid. Let the egg cook for 6 minutes then remove it from the stove. Side Note: if you are using a jumbo sized egg, cook for 6 minutes & 30 seconds. 
While the egg is cooking, toast a piece of bread in a toaster then slather it with butter and cut into thin sticks (aka soldiers). 
When the six minutes are up, run the saucepan and egg immediately under cold water until the egg is cool enough to be handled. 
Using a butter knife, crack the top edge of the egg then gently slice the top bit of the egg off. 
Place the egg in the soft egg dish and serve with the buttery toast soldiers and the egg top. Side Note: If you don't have the soft egg dish, you can peel the egg completely (carefully) and serve in a ramekin. 

START RECIPE

INGREDIENTS 
4 slices of bacon, cut into bits 
1 pre-made pie crust, unrolled 
Brie, to taste 
5 eggs 
1Ѕ cups milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. 
Cook the bacon bits in a skillet over medium heat until crisp and cooked. Place on a paper towel to drain grease. 
Coat a pie pan with cooking spray then carefully unroll the pre-made pie crust and place it in the pie pan. Crimp the edges. 
Combine the eggs, milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, together in a bowl and whisk until very well combined. 
Sprinkle most of the bits of brie and crumbled bacon in the bottom of the pie. 
Add the well whisked egg mixture. 
Sprinkle the remaining bits of brie and crumbled bacon on top. 
Carefully place into the oven and bake for 40 minutes, or until the top is set and not wiggly and the eggs are cooked through. Don’t overcook! 
Let the quiche cool for at least 15 minutes before slicing and serving. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Sausage Gravy with Biscuits 
INGREDIENTS 
1 lb tube of pork breakfast sausage 
? cup flour 
3 cups of milk, more if needed 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Biscuits, cooked per instructions 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Pinch the sausage from the tube into bite sized pieces and place into a single layer in a large skillet over medium high heat: cook until no longer pink, making sure to break up the sausage into small crumbles as it cooks. 
Sprinkle the flour over the sausage and stir until completely combined. 
Cook for a minute or two before slowly adding the milk while stirring constantly. 
Cook the gravy, stirring often, until it thickens. 
Taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Turn off the heat and the gravy will thicken as it cools. Serve over hot biscuits. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE
Eggnog French Toast 
INGREDIENTS 
1 cup of eggnog 
2 eggs 
Ѕ tsp vanilla 
Ѕ tsp cinnamon 
Dash of nutmeg 
8 slices of cinnamon bread 
Serve with butter, powdered sugar, fresh raspberries, and maple syrup, if desired 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Whisk the eggnog with the two eggs, vanilla, cinnamon, and dash of nutmeg until thoroughly combined. 
Heat a griddle (or a non stick skillet) over medium heat. Coat the griddle with coconut oil cooking spray. 
Dip each slice of cinnamon bread into the eggnog mixture then place on the hot griddle. 
Cook for 2-3 minutes, or until golden brown and carefully flip each piece of bread. 
Continue to cook for another 1-2 minutes, or until golden. 
Remove to a serving plate. 
Serve with butter, powdered sugar, fresh raspberries, and maple syrup. Enjoy! 

START RECIPE

Buttermilk Waffles 
INGREDIENTS 
2 cups flour 
1 tsp salt 
Ѕ tsp baking soda 
Ѕ tsp cinnamon 
2 large eggs, separated 
1ѕ cup buttermilk 
4 tbsp melted butter, cooled 
Ѕ tsp vanilla 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat a waffle iron. 
Whisk together the flour, salt, baking soda, and cinnamon together in a large mixing bowl, until well combined. 
Whisk together the egg yolk, buttermilk, cooled melted butter, and vanilla in a small bowl, until well combined.. 
In a separate bowl, beat or whisk the egg whites until it just holds a 2-inch peak. 
Slowly add the liquid ingredients to the dry ingredients in a thin, steady stream while mixing gently with a rubber spatula. 
Side Note: Do not add liquid faster than you can incorporate it into the batter. 
Toward the end of mixing, use a folding motion to incorporate the ingredients. 
Gently ford the egg white into the batter. Set aside for a few minutes. 
Spray the hot waffle iron well with coconut oil cooking spray. 
Spread an appropriate amount of batter onto the waffle iron. 
Following your waffle iron's instructions, cook the waffle until golden brown, 2-5 minutes. 
Serve immediately with butter, syrup, and jam, if desired. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Homemade Cheesy Potato Casserole 
INGREDIENTS 
4 large russet potatoes, peeled 
3 tbsp butter, 
Ѕ cup sweet yellow onion, diced small 
2 clove garlic, minced 
2Ѕ tbsp all-Purpose flour 
Ѕ cup chicken broth 
Ѕ cup whole milk 
1 cup sour cream 
3 green onions, sliced 
1 cup Colby Jack cheese, shredded 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Peel the russet potatoes. 
Slice them into planks, then strips and dice into bite sized cubes. 
Place the cubed potatoes into a pot of water, bring to a boil and cook for 8 minutes. 
Remove and drain the potatoes in a colander then side aside to let them cool. 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a 9 x 13 baking dish with butter or cooking spray. 
Melt the butter over medium heat then add the diced onions. 
Cook for a few minutes, stirring occasionally, until softened. 
Add the minced garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. 
Sprinkle in the flour and stir, cooking for 2-3 minutes. 
Very slowly, pour in the half cup of broth and half cup of whole milk, while whisking. 
Continue to stir until thickened, about 6-8 minutes. 
Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Remove from the heat. 
Add the cooked and drained potatoes to the saucepan with the thickened gravy along with the sour cream, colby cheese, and green onions. 
Stir until well combined: taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Pour into the prepared baking dish. 
Place into the oven and bake in the oven for 1 hour or until bubbly and lightly golden. 
Remove from the oven and let cool for about 15-20 minutes before serving. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Creamed Chipped Beef on Toast (S.O.S.) 
INGREDIENTS 
1 jar of dried beef slices, rinsed well & chopped 
4 tbsp butter 
4 tbsp flour 
Pinch of cayenne 
2 cups milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Bread, toasted 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Rinse the slices of dried beef really well - they are VERY salty! Once you have rinsed well, pat dry with a paper towel. 
Chop the beef into small bite sized pieces. Set aside. 
Heat the butter in the a large saucepan over medium heat. 
Add the flour and pinch of cayenne pepper to the melted butter and whisk until well combined and cooked through, about 45 seconds. 
Very slowly add the milk while whisking continually. 
Once the milk has all been added, add the cut dried beef. 
Cook, stirring occasionally, for a few minutes until thickened. 
Taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, if needed. 
Serve on top of dry toast immediately. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Broccoli, Extra Sharp Cheddar, and Bacon Quiche 
INGREDIENTS 
2 cups broccoli florets, steamed until for tender, then chopped coarsely 
2 slices of bacon, cooked & crumbled 
1-2 tsp olive oil (or bacon grease) 
Ѕ sweet yellow onion, finely diced 
1 pre-made pie crust, unrolled 
1Ѕ cup extra sharp white cheddar, shredded 
5 eggs 
1Ѕ cups milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. 
Steam the broccoli in a steamer over boiling water for a couple of minutes, or until fork tender. 
While the broccoli is steaming, cook the bacon in a skillet over medium heat until crisp and cooked. Place on a paper towel to drain grease then cut into crumblSoft Boiled Egg with Buttery Toast “Soldiers” 
Soft Boiled Egg with Buttery Toast Soldiers 

START RECIPE
Soft Boiled Egg with Buttery Toast Soldiers 

INGREDIENTS 
1 egg 
1 piece of bread, toasted 
Butter, to taste 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, if desired 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat an inch of water in a small saucepan over medium high heat until boiling. 
Add the egg, reduce the heat to medium, and cover with a lid. Let the egg cook for 6 minutes then remove it from the stove. Side Note: if you are using a jumbo sized egg, cook for 6 minutes & 30 seconds. 
While the egg is cooking, toast a piece of bread in a toaster then slather it with butter and cut into thin sticks (aka soldiers). 
When the six minutes are up, run the saucepan and egg immediately under cold water until the egg is cool enough to be handled. 
Using a butter knife, crack the top edge of the egg then gently slice the top bit of the egg off. 
Place the egg in the soft egg dish and serve with the buttery toast soldiers and the egg top. Side Note: If you don't have the soft egg dish, you can peel the egg completely (carefully) and serve in a ramekin. 

Remove all but 1-2 teaspoons of bacon grease from the skillet (or use olive oil) then add the onion. Cook, stirring often, for 4-5 minutes, or until softened and golden brown. 
Coat a pie pan with cooking spray then carefully unroll the pre-made pie crust and place it in the pie pan. Crimp the edges. 
Combine the eggs, milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, together in a bowl and whisk until very well combined. 
Sprinkle most of the chopped steamed broccoli, onions, crumbled bacon, and extra sharp cheddar in the bottom of the pie. 
Add the well whisked egg mixture. 
Sprinkle the remaining broccoli, bacon, cheese, and caramelized onions on top. 
Carefully place into the oven and bake for 40 minutes, or until the top is set and not wiggly and the eggs are cooked through. Don’t overcook! 
Let the quiche cool for at least 15 minutes before slicing and serving. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Soft Boiled Egg with Buttery Toast “Soldiers” 
INGREDIENTS 
1 egg 
1 piece of bread, toasted 
Butter, to taste 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, if desired 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat an inch of water in a small saucepan over medium high heat until boiling. 
Add the egg, reduce the heat to medium, and cover with a lid. Let the egg cook for 6 minutes then remove it from the stove. Side Note: if you are using a jumbo sized egg, cook for 6 minutes & 30 seconds. 
While the egg is cooking, toast a piece of bread in a toaster then slather it with butter and cut into thin sticks (aka soldiers). 
When the six minutes are up, run the saucepan and egg immediately under cold water until the egg is cool enough to be handled. 
Using a butter knife, crack the top edge of the egg then gently slice the top bit of the egg off. 
Place the egg in the soft egg dish and serve with the buttery toast soldiers and the egg top. Side Note: If you don't have the soft egg dish, you can peel the egg completely (carefully) and serve in a ramekin. 

START RECIPE
Poached Egg with Bacon, Tomato, and Avocado on a Bagel 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 tsp vinegar 
1 egg, cracked into a ramekin 
Ѕ mini bagel, toasted 
Ѕ avocado, sliced 
1 piece of bacon, cooked, cut in half 
1 slice of tomato 
Sea salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
DIRECTIONS: 
Combine 1 Ѕ inches of water and 1 teaspoon of white vinegar in a wide medium sized saucepan and bring to a simmer. 

Break 1 egg into a small ramekin. Once the water is at a simmer, stir the water with the bottom of your slotted spoon clockwise to make a swirling motion in the water. Quickly and carefully slide egg into the water. Cover and turn stove off. Poach until whites are firm and yolks are still runny, 3 minutes and 45 seconds. Remove the egg using a slotted spoon and drain a bit over the pan. 

While the egg is cooking, toast half of a mini bagel: then place onto a plate. Place a few slices of avocado on the toasted bagel, then add the bacon, then the tomato slice, and finally top with the drained poached egg. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Serve immediately. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE
Strawberry-Vanilla Bean Syrup 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 vanilla bean, split down the center lengthwise 
3 cups of fresh strawberries, hulled & halved 
1 cup of water 
3/4 cup of sugar 

DIRECTIONS: 
Split and open the vanilla bean pod down the center lengthwise with a knife. Using the same knife, scrape the seeds out. 

Add the water, sugar, and vanilla bean pod scrapings into a large saucepan over medium low heat. Stir to combine. Clean and hull your strawberries then slice in half. Add the strawberries to the sugar water and simmer, stirring occasionally, for 30-45 minutes. Remove from the heat and let it sit until cool. Pour the mixture through a very fine strainer and mash the berries against the strainer with a spoon to get every little bit of juice out of them: discard the pulp. Pour the sauce into a serving container and enjoy on pancakes, French toast, waffles, crepes, or add to sparkling water. Store the remaining syrup in an air tight container in the refrigerator. 


START RECIPE
Spicy Avocado Toast 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 piece of sourdough bread 
1 clove of garlic 
1/2 avocado, smashed 
Sea salt, to taste 
Crushed red pepper flakes, to taste 

DIRECTIONS: 
Toast a slice of sourdough bread until crisp and golden. Scrape the whole clove of garlic over the top of the warm toast a few times. Spoon some avocado on top of the toast and smash it down evenly with a fork. Sprinkle the top with sea salt and crushed red pepper flakes, to taste. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Veggie Scramble on Toast 

INGREDIENTS: 
1 tsp olive oil 
3 tbsp sweet yellow onion, diced 
Handful of grape tomatoes, halves 
2 cups baby spinach 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes, to taste 
1 tsp butter 
4 eggs 
2 tbsp milk 
Dried dill, to taste 
Sea salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
2 slices of whole wheat bread, toasted & buttered 
Feta cheese crumbles, to taste 

DIRECTIONS: 
Heat the olive oil in a non stick pan over medium heat. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, for 2-3 minutes. Add the tomato halves and spinach along with the crushed red pepper flakes. Cook, stirring constantly, for 2 minutes. Remove from the pan into a bowl, set aside. 

Heat the butter in the non stick pan over medium heat. Whisk the eggs together very well with the milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Pour in the egg mixture into the hot pan then season with dill, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Constantly fold the egg mixture from the bottom of the pan to the top. This will keep it from overcooking and the middle section will stay soft and fluffy. Do this constantly for 1 or 2 minutes, or until the eggs are just about cooked to your liking. Add the spinach mixture back to the pan and gently combine with the scrambled eggs. 

Meanwhile, place your bread into the toaster and toast: butter the toast when finished. Layer the scrambled egg on top of the buttered toast followed by a sprinkling of feta cheese. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE
Poached Egg with Tomato and Pesto 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 tsp olive oil 
1 thick tomato slice 
Sea salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes, if desired 
1 tsp white vinegar 
1 egg
Dollop of pesto 

DIRECTIONS: 
Heat 2 teaspoons of olive oil in a small skillet over medium high heat. Season both sides of the tomato slice with some sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste as well as a pinch of crushed red pepper flakes, if desired. Add the thick tomato slice to the pan and cook 2 minutes per side. 

While the tomato is cooking, combine 1 Ѕ inches of water and 1 teaspoon of white vinegar in a wide medium sized saucepan and bring to a simmer. 

Break 1 egg into a small bowl. Once the water is at a simmer, stir the water with the bottom of your slotted spoon clockwise to make a swirling motion in the water. Quickly and carefully slide egg into the water. Cover and turn stove off. Poach until whites are firm and yolks are still runny, 3 minutes and 45 seconds. Remove the egg using a slotted spoon and drain a bit over the pan. 

Remove the tomato from the skillet and place on a plate. Spoon a dollop of pesto on top followed by the poached egg. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Serve immediately. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE
Super Green Smoothie with Green Apple and Banana 
INGREDIENTS:
2 cups of super greens – combination of baby spinach, baby red and green chard, and baby kale 
1/2 cup almond coconut milk, unsweetened 
1/2 cup ice 
1/4 cup Greek yogurt 
1 green apple, peeled, cored, and diced 
1 banana 

DIRECTIONS: 
Place the super greens, almond coconut milk, ice, Greek yogurt, green apple, and banana into a blender.  Blend very well until smooth and creamy. Drink immediately. Enjoy. 

Side Note: The apple gives the smoothie a bit of a grainy texture, which didn’t bother me, but if you prefer smooth and creamy smoothies, try blending this smoothie extra well and strain through a fine sieve if desired.  

START RECIPE
Roasted Vegetable Quiche with Spinach and Sharp Cheddar 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 tsp olive oil 
1 small red onion, cut into chunks 
4 oz button mushrooms, quartered 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
5 stalks of asparagus, ends removed & cut into thirds 
1 cup grape tomatoes 
1 frozen pie crust 
5 eggs 
1 Ѕ cups milk 
1 cup baby spinach 
1/2 cup sharp cheddar 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat a baking sheet with olive oil cooking spray. 

Place the onion and mushrooms on the prepared baking sheet. Drizzle with a bit of olive oil then season with a pinch of crushed red pepper flakes, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Place into the oven and roast for 15 minutes: add the asparagus and tomatoes then continue to roast for 10 minutes. Remove from the oven and set aside. 

Reduce the oven to 375 degrees. 

Spray a piece of tin foil with a bit of cooking spray then press it gently on top of the frozen pie crust and place into the oven to bake for 10 minutes. Remove the foil and continue to bake for 3-5 minutes. Remove from the oven. Place the tin foil on the bottom of a baking sheet. Place the pie crust on top. 

Combine the eggs, milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, together in a bowl and whisk until very well combined. 

Sprinkle the bottom of the crust with most of the baby spinach, followed by most of the roasted veggies, then half of the cheese. 

Add the well whisked egg mixture. Sprinkle the remaining spinach, roasted veggies, and cheese on top. 

Carefully place into the oven and bake for 30-40 minutes, or until the top is set and not wiggly and the eggs are cooked through. Don’t overcook! Remove from the oven and let it rest for 10 minutes before slicing and serving. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE
Classic Buttermilk Pancakes 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 cup flour 
1 ј tsp baking powder 
Ѕ tsp cinnamon, optional 
ј tsp baking soda 
ј salt 
1 cup buttermilk 
1 egg 
Ѕ tsp vanilla 
1 Ѕ tbsp butter, melted & cooled + more for serving 
Maple syrup, to taste for serving 

DIRECTIONS: 
In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, baking powder, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt, until well combined. In a small bowl, whisk the buttermilk, eggs, and vanilla. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients. Mix gently until the dry ingredients are just mixed. Add the cooled melted butter and mix just until the batter is evenly combined (there will be lumps). Let the batter rest while you heat the griddle or skillet. 

Pour 1/4 cup of batter per pancake onto a hot nonstick griddle or skillet that has been coated with coconut oil cooking spray or butter. Cook 2 minutes or until the tops are covered with bubbles and edges look cooked. Carefully turn pancakes over: cook 2 more minutes or until bottoms are lightly browned. Top with butter and a drizzle of maple syrup.  Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Sausage, Mushroom, and Cheddar Quiche 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 frozen pie crust 
6 links of sausage, browned 
2 tsp olive oil 
8 oz button mushroms, sliced 
5 eggs 
1 Ѕ cups milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
1 cup sharp cheddar, shredded 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. 

Spray a piece of tin foil with a bit of cooking spray then press it gently on top of the frozen pie crust and place into the oven to bake for 10 minutes. Remove the foil and continue to bake for 3-5 minutes. Remove from the oven. Place the tin foil on the bottom of a baking sheet. Place the pie crust on top. 

Cook the sausage links in a skillet over medium heat until just cooked and browned on the outside, they will finish in the oven. Place on a paper towel to drain grease then cut into bites.  Remove the sausage grease from the pan and add the olive oil. Once the pan is hot, add the mushrooms. Cook without stirring for 2 minutes then stir and continue cooking for a minute or two. Remove from the heat. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Combine the eggs, milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, together in a bowl and whisk until very well combined. Sprinkle most of the pieces of sausage in the bottom of the pie crust followed by most of the mushrooms and cheese. Add the well whisked egg mixture. Sprinkle the remaining sausage, mushrooms, and cheese on top. 

Carefully place into the oven and bake for 30-35 minutes, or until the top is set and not wiggly and the eggs are cooked through. Don’t overcook! 


START RECIPE
Berry Banana Smoothie Bowl 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 cups ice cubes 
1 cup Just Blueberry juice (or Just Cranberry if you prefer) 
1/2 cup Greek yogurt 
1/2 cup fresh blueberries 
1/2 cup fresh raspberries 
1 banana
1-2 tsp agave, more or less depending on the sweetness of the fruit 

Toppings: 

Shredded coconut 
Fresh blueberries and raspberries 
Kiwi, peeled & sliced 
Mini chocolate chips 

DIRECTIONS: 
Combine the ice cubes with the Just Blueberry juice, Greek yogurt, banana, blueberries, raspberries, and agave (or honey) in a blender. Blend until smooth and creamy. Taste and add more agave, if needed. Pour into bowls. Top with coconut, fresh berries, kiwi, and mini chocolate chips on the side, if desired. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 



START RECIPE
Bacon, Sharp Cheddar, and Chive Quiche 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 frozen pie crust 
5 slices of lean bacon, cooked and crumbled 
5 eggs 
1  1/2 cup milk 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
1 cup sharp cheddar, shredded 
1 tbsp fresh chives, chopped 
DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. 

Press tin foil on top of the frozen pie crust and place into the oven to bake for 10 minutes. Remove the foil and continue to bake for 3-5 minutes. Remove from the oven. Place the tin foil on the bottom of a baking sheet. Place the pie crust on top. 

Cook the bacon in a skillet over medium heat until crisp and cooked. Place on a paper towel to drain grease then cut into crumbles. 

Combine the eggs, milk, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, together in a bowl and whisk until very well combined. 

Sprinkle most of the crumbled bacon in the bottom of the pie crust followed by most of the cheese and chives. Add the well whisked egg mixture. Sprinkle the remaining bacon, cheese, and chives on top. 

Carefully place into the oven and bake for 30-35 minutes, or until the top is set and not wiggly and the eggs are cooked through. Don’t overcook! 


START RECIPE
Mini Pancakes with Fruit, Coconut, and Chocolate 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 cup Hungry Jack Pancake and Waffle Mix 
3/4 cup water 
1/2 tsp vanilla extract 
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon 
Blueberries 
Raspberries, torn into pieces 
Mini chocolate chips 
Shredded sweetened coconut 

DIRECTIONS: 
Combine the Hungry Jack Pancake Mix together with the water, vanilla, and cinnamon. Whisk until well combined. 

Heat the fry pan over medium heat. Coat with coconut oil cooking spray. Ladle batter into the pan making five small pancakes. Sprinkle whatever combination of fruit, coconut, and chocolate that you would like. 

Once the top of the pancakes start to bubble a bit, gently flip them over and cook the other side for a minute or two, or until done. Repeat with the remaining batter. 

Remove the pancakes from the fry pan and place on a serving plate. Sprinkle the mini with powdered sugar and serve with syrup on the side for dipping. Enjoy! 

 
START RECIPE
Tart Cherry & Pomegranate Curd 
INGREDIENTS: 
Zest of 1 lemon + 2 tsp lemon juice 
1  1/2 cups white sugar 
8 tbsp softened unsalted butter 
4 extra large eggs 
1/3 cup Just Tarty Cherry juice 
3 tbsp Just Pomegranate Juice 
Pinch of salt 

DIRECTIONS: 
Combine the zest of 1 lemon and the white sugar together with your fingers until it’s well combined and the sugar is fragrant. Set aside. 

Cream the butter with a hand mixer until creamy and smooth. Add the fragrant sugar and blend until well combined. Add the eggs, one at a time and mix thoroughly. Add the Just Tart Cherry Juice, Just Pomegranate Juice, lemon juice, and salt then blend until well combined. 

Pour into a small sauce pan and cook over medium heat, stirring often, until thickened, about 10 minutes at about 170 degrees. Remove from heat and let cool before pouring it into a container. Side Note: If you accidentally overcook the sauce, it may curdle a bit. Simply pour through the fine mesh strainer to remove any clumps. Serve over  crepes, pancakes & waffles, toast, ice cream, muffins, or sugar cookies. Store, well sealed, in the refrigerator. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Pumpkin Spice Granola 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 cups of oats 
1/2 cup pumpkin seeds 
1/2 cup pecans 
1 tsp chia seeds 
1/4 cup maple syrup 
1/4 cup pumpkin puree 
1/4 cup coconut oil, melted 
1 tsp cinnamon 
1/4 tsp clove 
1/8 tsp nutmeg 
1/8 tsp ginger 
1 tsp vanilla 
1/2 cup shredded coconut 
1/2 cup dried cranberries 

DIRECTIONS: 
Heat oven to 350 degrees.  Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.  Spray the top with a bit of coconut oil spray. Set aside. 

Combine the oats, pumpkin seeds, pecans, and chia seeds in a large mixing bowl. In a separate bowl, whisk together the maple syrup, pumpkin puree, melted coconut oil, spices, and vanilla extract together until smooth.  Pour the maple syrup mixture over the oats mixture, and toss until everything is evenly coated. 

Spread the granola mixture out evenly on the parchment lined baking sheet and bake for 15 minutes.  Remove from the oven and add the coconut and stir.  Return the granola to the oven and cook for an additional 8-10 minutes, or until the mixture is golden.  Remove and let the granola cool until it reaches room temperature.  Stir in the dried cranberries. Enjoy with milk, in yogurt, plain, or with ice cream. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks. 

START RECIPE
Breakfast Sandwich with Egg, Avocado, Tomato, and Swiss Cheese 

INGREDIENTS: 
Cooking spray 
1 egg 
Cayenne pepper, to taste 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
1 tsp water 
1 whole wheat English muffin, toasted 
1 slice of Swiss cheese 
1 slice of tomato 
3 slices of avocado 

DIRECTIONS:
Heat the cooking spray in a small skillet over medium heat. Crack the egg into the egg mold and season with cayenne, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Once the white of the egg is no longer transparent, add the water to the pan and cover with a lid. Cook for about 1 minute or until the yolk is clouded over but still soft. Don’t over cook or the yolk will be hard. 

Toast the English muffin. Place the cheese on the bottom half of the English muffin followed by the egg, sliced tomato, and avocado slices: season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Top with the remaining muffin half. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE
Breakfast Tostada with Steak and Avocado 
INGREDIENTS: 
Cooking spray 
1 corn tortilla 
1/4 cup leftover refried beans, re-heated 
2 tbsp Monterey Jack cheese, shredded 
1/4 cup leftover steak, re-heated 
Grape tomatoes, sliced 
Green onion, chopped 
1/2 avocado, sliced 
1 egg 
1 tsp white vinegar 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Fresh cilantro, chopped 

DIRECTIONS: 
Heat a skillet over medium heat. Coat both sides of the corn tortilla with cooking spray. Place the tortilla in the hot skillet, pressing it flat, and cook for 3-4 minutes on each side, or until golden brown and crisp. Remove from the skillet and place on a paper towel to drain. 

Break 1 egg into a small bowl. Fill a small sauce pan with a few inches of water. Once the water is at a simmer, stir the water with the bottom of your slotted spoon clockwise to make a swirling motion in the water. Quickly and carefully slide egg into the water. Cover and turn stove off. Poach until whites are firm and yolks are still runny, 3 minutes and 30-45 seconds. 

While the egg is poaching, re-heat the refried beans and steak in the microwave. Place the cooked tortilla on a plate then slather with the refried beans. Top with cheese, steak, tomatoes, green onions, and avocado slices. 

Remove the egg using a slotted spoon and drain a bit over the pan. Add the poached egg to the top of the tostada then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Sprinkle the cilantro over the egg and serve immediately. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE
Polenta Cake Topped with Sautйed Tomatoes, Spinach, and a Poached Egg 
INGREDIENTS: 
1/2 cup leftover polenta, formed into a patty 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
3 tsp olive oil, divided 
2 tbsp red onion, diced 
Handful of grape tomatoes 
1 cup of baby spinach 
1 egg 
1 tsp white vinegar 
Parmesan, shredded 

DIRECTIONS: 
Form the leftover polenta into a medium sized patty. Season both sides with some sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Heat 1 1/2 teaspoons of the olive oil in a skillet over medium high heat. Add the polenta cake to the pan and cook until crisp and golden, about 3-4 minutes each side. 

While the polenta is cooking, add the remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons of olive oil to a skillet over medium heat. Add the red onion and tomatoes then cook, stirring occasionally, for 4-5 minutes. Add the spinach then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook the spinach for 1 minute, stirring occasionally. 

While the polenta and vegetables are cooking, combine 1 1/2 inches of water and 1 teaspoon of white vinegar in a wide medium sized saucepan and bring to a simmer. 

Break 1 egg into a small bowl. Once the water is at a simmer, stir the water with the bottom of your slotted spoon clockwise to make a swirling motion in the water. Quickly and carefully slide egg into the water. Cover and turn stove off. Poach until whites are firm and yolks are still runny, 3 minutes and 45 seconds. Remove the egg using a slotted spoon and drain a bit over the pan. 

Remove the polenta from the skillet and place on a plate. Spoon the sautйed veggies on top followed by a poached egg and parmesan cheese. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Serve immediately. Enjoy! 

START RECIPE
Sharp Cheddar and Bacon Omelette 
INGREDIENTS: 
3 eggs, whisked 
1 tsp milk 
2 pieces of bacon, crumbled 
Sharp cheddar, shredded
Se salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 

DIRECTIONS: 
Heat a skillet over medium heat then cook the bacon until crisp on both sides. Remove from the skillet and place on paper towels to drain. Wipe the skillet clean. 

Heat the skillet, that has been coated in cooking spray, over medium low and turn the broiler on in your oven. Crack three eggs into a bowl, add the milk, and whisk until well blended: season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Pour the egg mixture into the skillet and swirl so the pan is evenly coated with egg. 

Once your egg is starting to set, sprinkle the bacon on one half then top with the shredded cheese. 

Move the skillet to the oven and place on the top rack (don’t put the handle in the oven if it’s not oven safe) and let the broiler cook the top part of the egg, it takes only 30 seconds or so. Remove the pan and flip the other part of the egg mixture on top of the bacon mixture. Slide onto a plate and serve immediately. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Baked Caprese Eggs with Pesto 
INGREDIENTS: 
1/2 tsp olive oil 
Handful of grape tomatoes, sliced 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
1-2 tsp pesto, to taste (click link up above for recipe) 
1 tbsp mozzarella, shredded 
2 eggs 

DIRECTIONS: 
Prepare pesto – click here for recipe. 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. 

Heat the olive oil in a small OVEN PROOF skillet over medium heat. Add the tomatoes and crushed red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, for 1-2 minutes, or until softened. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, toss to coat evenly. Take the skillet off of the heat and spoon a bit of pesto on top and gently stir to coat evenly. Sprinkle the top with a bit of mozzarella cheese. Spread the tomatoes towards the sides of the skillet. Add a teaspoon of water (this will help the veggies not burn & the eggs to not get browned on the bottom of the skillet). Carefully crack the eggs into the center of the skillet, making sure not to break the yolks. Season the top of the eggs with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Place into the oven and bake for 9-10 minutes or until the egg whites are set but the yolks are still soft and runny. Remove from the oven and sprinkle with additional pesto and mozzarella if desired. Serve plain or with toast. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE
Baked Spanish Tortilla with Potato, Bacon, Onion, Mushroom, Tomato, Spinach, and Sharp Cheddar 
INGREDIENTS: 
4 slices of bacon, cooked & crumbled 
1 russet potato, sliced thinly 
1 small sweet yellow onion, sliced thinly 
8 oz button mushrooms, sliced 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Cayenne, to taste 
Garlic powder, to taste 
1/2 cup grape tomatoes, halved 
1 cup of baby spinach, chopped 
9-10 eggs, mixed well 
Sharp cheddar cheese, shredded, to taste 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. 

Heat the olive oil in an OVEN PROOF pan over medium heat. Add the bacon slices and cook, flipping when needed, to cook the bacon until crisp. Remove from the pan and place on paper towels to drain. Chop into crumbles. Remove all but 1 tbsp bacon grease from the pan. Add the onion, mushrooms, and potato slices to the hot skillet. Season with sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, cayenne pepper, and garlic powder, to taste. Cook, stirring gently and often, for 12-15 minutes, or until tender and golden brown. Add the tomatoes, spinach, and crumbled bacon then add the egg mixture along with the sharp cheddar cheese. Season the top with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Place into the oven and bake for 12 minutes or until light and fluffy. Don’t overcook. Remove from the oven then slice and serve. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE
Tropical Parfait 
INGREDIENTS: 
Granola 
Vanilla yogurt 
Kiwi, peeled & sliced 
Pineapple, sliced 
Pomegranate seeds 
Shredded sweetened coconut 

DIRECTIONS: 
Sprinkle some granola in the bottom of a fancy dessert dish then top with a few spoonfuls of vanilla yogurt. Sprinkle the yogurt with a little bit of kiwi, pineapple, coconut, and pomegranate seeds then top with a few more spoonfuls of yogurt. Finish the parfait off with more fruit, coconut, and granola. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE

Easy Breakfast Burritos (for the freezer!) 

INGREDIENTS 
2 tablespoons ghee, aka clarified butter 
1 baking potato (russet - medium to large size), cut into 1/4 dice 
1/2 onion, cut into small dice 
1 large green bell pepper, cut into small dice 
1/2 teaspoon salt, + more to taste 
pepper, to taste 
butter, for cooking 
1 pound breakfast sausage 
10 eggs, beaten 
1 cup grated cheese, either cheddar, Monterey Jack, Swiss or a mix 
6 whole-wheat tortillas, large 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large skillet over medium-high heat, melt the clarified butter. Add the diced potatoes and cook for 5 to 6 minutes, stirring occasionally. 

Stir in the diced onion and bell pepper along with 1/2 teaspoon salt and pepper (to taste). Cook for 3 to 4 more minutes until the veggies are soft. Set aside. 

In the same skillet (wiped clean) or a separate skillet, melt a couple of teaspoons of the butter (or you can use olive oil) over medium heat. Add the sausage and cook until no longer pink while breaking up with a spoon, about 5 to 6 minutes. Set aside. 

In the same skillet (wiped clean) or a separate skillet, melt a couple more teaspoons of butter over medium-low heat. Pour in the eggs and let rest until they start to set. Carefully scramble until cooked all the way through (no longer runny), then stir in the grated cheese and salt & pepper, to taste. 

Lay out each tortilla on its own piece of foil. Evenly distribute the sausage, potato mixture and eggs on top. Roll them up (or cut in half first for smaller portions) and secure with foil. Add to a freezer-safe bag and freeze for a rainy day. To reheat: defrost in fridge overnight and heat in oven till warm or remove foil and heat in the microwave. 

START RECIPE

Bolognese Sauce (in the Crock-Pot® Express Crock Multi-Cooker) 

INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 onion, diced 
4 carrots, peeled and diced   
4 ribs celery, diced 
4 ounces diced pancetta 
1 pound ground beef 
1 pound ground pork 
1 cup red wine 
1 tablespoon Italian seasoning 
1 teaspoon salt, plus extra for taste 
1/4 teaspoon pepper, red or black, plus extra for taste 
1 28 ounce can diced tomatoes, with juice 
1 28 ounce can crushed tomatoes 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Press BROWN/SAUTE, set the temperature to HIGH and then press START/STOP. Add the olive oil and cook the onions, carrots and celery while stirring until they begin to soften, 5 to 8 minutes. 

Add the pancetta, beef and pork, season with a few shakes of salt and pepper and cook while stirring until brown all the way through, 5 to 8 minutes. 

Add the wine and cook until reduced by half, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the Italian seasoning, salt and pepper along with both cans of tomatoes. Press START/STOP to turn off the saute function.  

Secure the lid. Press MEAT/STEW, set pressure to HIGH and adjust the time to 15 minutes. Make sure the STEAM RELEASE VALVE is in the SEAL (closed position). Press START/STOP.  

Once cooking is complete and the pressure is released (either manually or automatically), open the lid.  

Optional, but recommended: Spoon off some of the liquid and/or turn back on to the BROWN/SAUTE setting to boil off the liquid for a thicker sauce (as pictured). 

Serve on a bed of cooked whole-wheat noodles topped with freshly grated parmesan cheese. 

START RECIPE

Smoky Cauliflower Tacos (with Blender Romesco Sauce) 

INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE CAULIFLOWER 
1 large head cauliflower 
2 teaspoons chili powder 
1 teaspoon paprika 
1 teaspoon cumin 
1/2 teaspoon smoked salt, you can sub regular salt, but then these won't taste smoky! 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 lime, juiced 
FOR THE ROMESCO SAUCE 
1 14.5 ounce can fire roasted diced tomatoes 
1 4 ounce jar pimentos with juice 
1/2 cup raw almonds 
1 lime, juiced 
2 cloves garlic 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 teaspoon smoked salt, again, you can sub regular salt but the smoked salt is SO worth it! 
INSTRUCTIONS  
FOR THE CAULIFLOWER 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Cut cauliflower into 1 bite-size pieces, big stems removed and discarded. Place on large baking sheet. 

In a small bowl mix the spices. Drizzle the olive oil, lime juice and then the spices over top of the cauliflower. Toss to combine. 

Bake until tender when pierced with a fork, about 20 minutes. 

FOR THE ROMESCO SAUCE 
Blend all ingredients until smooth. Serve at room temperature or warm. Reserve half of the sauce for leftovers (lucky you)!  

TO ASSEMBLE 
Serve roasted cauliflower and Romesco sauce with corn tortillas, grated cheese, sliced red cabbage, fresh cilantro, avocado and whatever else you love to have on your tacos. 


START RECIPE

Easy Salmon Curry (a one-dish dinner!) 

INGREDIENTS 
2 tbsp olive oil or coconut oil 
1/2 onion, diced 
1 bell pepper (yellow or green), seeded and diced 
2 cloves garlic, minced   
1 inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and thinly sliced 
2 tbsp green curry paste 
1 14 ounce can coconut milk, full-fat, unsweetened 
1 1/2 cups water or broth (or a combo) 
3/4 pound fresh salmon, skin removed and cut into 1-inch chunks 
2 cups chopped fresh greens (Swiss chard, bok choy, kale or spinach) 
4 servings brown rice, cooked according to package directions 
fresh basil leaves or Thai basil leaves, torn (optional garnish) 
freshly squeezed juice from 1 lime, (optional garnish) 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat the oil in a medium sauce pan over medium heat. Add the onion, bell pepper, garlic and ginger. Cook while stirring until the onion begins to soften, 2 to 3 minutes. 

Stir in the curry paste and cook for 1 more minute. Mix in the coconut milk and water (or broth) and bring to a simmer. Cook on low for 5 minutes, until onion and pepper are soft. 

Stir in the chunks of raw salmon and chopped greens and cook for another couple of minutes until the salmon is done (light pink) all the way through. Season with salt to taste. 

Spoon over brown rice and serve (these pre-cooked rice pouches are a huge time saver!). Garnish with basil leaves and top with freshly squeezed lime juice (if using). 


START RECIPE

 Ricotta and Kale Quiche 

INGREDIENTS 	
WHOLE-WHEAT CRUST 	
1 1/2 cups whole-wheat pastry flour, can sub regular whole-wheat flour, but I highly recommend pastry flour for this! 	
1/2 teaspoon salt 
8 tablespoons butter, melted 
2 tablespoons milk 
FILLING 
5 eggs 
1 cup heavy cream 
3/4 cup milk 
3/4 cup ricotta cheese 
3/4 cup Swiss cheese, freshly grated 
1 cup shredded kale, can sub spinach or Swiss chard 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  

In a 9-inch pie pan combine all of the crust ingredients with a fork. Use your hands to finish the mixture by pressing it into a ball. Press the dough into the pan and bring it up on the sides of the pan into one even layer. 

In a large bowl whisk together the eggs, cream and milk.  

Stir in the cheeses, kale, salt and pepper.  

Pour into the crust and bake until set in the middle and golden brown on top, about 40 to 45 minutes.   


START RECIPE

Easy Butternut Squash Salad with Feta 

INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE SALAD 
1 1/2 pounds butternut squash, peeled, seeded and cubed (I buy it already cut up in the produce section)  
1 tablespoon olive oil 
salt and pepper, to taste 
8 cups arugula leaves 
4 ounces feta cheese, crumbled 
1 avocado, diced 
FOR THE DRESSING 
3 tablespoons tahini 
3 tablespoons water 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon lemon juice, fresh 
1 clove garlic, crushed 
1 teaspoon honey 
salt and pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR THE SALAD 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Toss the squash together with the olive oil, salt and pepper. Spread out on a baking sheet and roast until tender when pierced with a fork, about 30 minutes. Allow to cool slightly. 

Arrange the arugula on a large platter and top with the squash. Add the feta and avocado. 

FOR THE DRESSING 
Blend together all ingredients until smooth. I used my hand immersion blender since this is a small job. A mini food processor would work nicely as well. Drizzle dressing over top of the salad and serve. 

START RECIPE

Chicken Pesto Pizza (+ Gluten-Free Option) 

INGREDIENTS 
PESTO 
1/2 cup kale leaves, big stems removed 
1/2 cup fresh basil leaves 
1/3 cup freshly grated parmesan cheese, plus extra to garnish finished pizza (if desired) 
1/4 cup pine nuts 
1 clove garlic, minced or crushed 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
PIZZA 
1 recipe favorite pizza dough, or 2 boxes Simple Mills gluten-free dough 
1 can pizza sauce 
1 8 ounce block fresh mozzarella, shredded 
2 cups cooked chicken, I used the Best Whole Chicken in the Crockpot recipe 
2 roma tomatoes, thinly sliced 
INSTRUCTIONS  
To make the pesto, combine the kale, basil, parmesan, pine nuts, garlic and olive oil in a small food processor. Puree until the mixture becomes a thick paste.  

Roll out the pizza dough into two large rounds on a lightly floured surface (corn meal works well, too) pinching around the edges to make a crust. Spread a thin layer of pizza sauce on top and then divide and sprinkle on the mozzarella. Distribute the chunks of cooked chicken and pesto then arrange the tomato slices on top.  

Bake according to pizza dough directions, top with freshly grated parmesan cheese (if desired) and serve warm. (Note: If using the Simple Mills dough I recommend following their instructions for baking it in the oven instead of cooking it in an outdoor pizza oven.) 


START RECIPE

Simple Grapefruit and Avocado Salad 
INGREDIENTS 
1 5 ounce bag/box spinach 
1 grapefruit, peeled and diced 
1 avocado, peeled and diced 
1/3 cup red onion, diced 
3 tbsp olive oil 
2 tbsp orange juice, fresh squeezed 
1 tsp honey 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Toss together the spinach, grapefruit, avocado and red onion. 

In a small jar or another container with a tight-fitting lid, shake together the oil, juice, honey, salt and pepper just until the dressing is emulsified. Toss with the salad mix until evenly coated and serve. 


START RECIPE

Greek Chicken Lemonato 
INGREDIENTS 
2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs 
2 pounds broccoli, big stems removed and cut into florets 
1 1/2 pounds fingerling or other small potatoes 
2/3 cup pitted, sliced kalamata olives
2 shallots cut in half longways, peeled and sliced 
1/4 cup olive oil 
1/4 cup white wine 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons lemon juice, freshly squeezed 
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
salt and pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 400° F. In a large roasting pan arrange the chicken, broccoli and potatoes.Tuck in the sliced olives and shallots. 

In a small bowl whisk together the olive oil, wine, garlic, lemon juice and mustard. Pour over top of the chicken and veggies. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and roast for 35 to 45 minutes, stirring a couple of times throughout, until the chicken is done (165° F) all the way through. 

Turn the broiler on high and broil for 5 minutes to help brown the tops and serve.  


START RECIPE

Sausage, Bell Pepper & Mushroom Pizza 
INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon butter 
3 shallots, peeled and thinly sliced 
1 green bell pepper, cored, seeded and diced 
4 ounces mushrooms, sliced 
2 links mild Italian sausage 
1 recipe whole-grain pizza dough, I used 2 boxes of Simple Mills Pizza Dough 
1 can pizza sauce 
1 8 ounce package fresh mozzarella, shredded or sliced 
freshly grated parmesan cheese, for serving 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Melt the butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the shallots, green peppers and mushrooms and cook until the veggies begin to soften, about 3 to 4 minutes. 

Take the casing off the sausage and discard. Add the sausage to the pan and break it up with the spatula. Cook until done all the way through (no longer pink), about 5 to 6 minutes.  

Roll out your pizza dough of choice (try my homemade recipe or follow the Simple Mills box instructions - I used 2 boxes) and top with a thin layer of pizza sauce, shredded mozzarella, and then the sausage mixture. Bake according to pizza dough directions, top with freshly grated parmesan cheese, slice and serve. 

START RECIPE

Braised Chicken Marsala 

INGREDIENTS 
2 teaspoons Italian seasoning 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 
1 1/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs 
1/2 cup whole-wheat flour 
5 tablespoons butter, divided 
12 ounces baby bella mushrooms, stems removed and sliced in half 
1 cup marsala wine 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Mix together the Italian seasoning, salt and pepper in a small bowl and sprinkle on top of the chicken until evenly coated. It helps to push on it with your fingers to make sure it really sticks. Sprinkle the flour on top of the seasonings, turn the chicken over, and coat all sides.  

In a large sautй pan over medium-high heat melt 4 tablespoons of the butter. Add the chicken and mushrooms to the pan and sear the chicken until golden brown on both sides, 4 to 5 minutes per side. Remove chicken and mushrooms from pan and set aside. 

Turn the heat up to high, pour the Marsala wine into the sautй pan, and boil until reduced by half, about 3 to 4 minutes. Turn the heat down to low, put the chicken and mushrooms back in the pan, cover with a tight-fitting lid and simmer until chicken is cooked all the way through, about 8 to 10 minutes. 

Remove the lid from the pan, add the remaining tablespoon of butter, turn the heat up to medium, and cook for just a minute or two to thicken the sauce. Remove from heat and serve warm over whole-grain noodles with a green veggie or salad on the side.  

Braised Chicken Marsala on 100 Days of Real Food 

START RECIPE

Shortcut Chicken Pot Pie for Tonight 
INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE FILLING 
6 tablespoons butter 
3/4 cup diced onion 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
3 cups frozen peas and diced carrot (mix) 
4 cans chicken, drained (I used Valley Fresh Organic) 
6 tablespoons whole-wheat flour, (I used the same pastry flour I used in the biscuit topping) 
5 cups broth, (chicken or veggie) 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
pepper, to taste 
FOR THE BISCUIT TOPPING 
1 cup whole-wheat pastry flour + extra for patting out the dough, (can substitute regular whole-wheat flour, but pastry flour is so good in this!) 
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
extra cream for brushing the top, (optional) 
scant 2/3 cup heavy cream 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. 

In a large sautй pan over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the onion and cook until it begins to soften, about 4 to 5 minutes. Add the garlic, frozen veggies, and chicken and cook for a couple more minutes. 

Sprinkle in the flour and stir just until the flour is almost completely absorbed and begins to darken in color. You can add a little more butter here if your pan gets too dry. 

Add the broth, cream, salt and pepper and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low and simmer for about 15 to 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the mixture thickens to the consistency of a thin gravy. 

Meanwhile, in a large mixing bowl whisk together the flour, baking powder and salt for the biscuit topping. Pour in the cream and stir to combine just until the dry ingredients are moistened.  

Turn the dough out onto a floured surface and flatten it with your hands so it's the right size and shape for your baking dish (you could use a small square, round or oval baking dish). 

Pour chicken mixture into your baking dish and position the dough on top. Brush with a little cream on top (to help it turn golden brown) and pierce some holes in the top with a fork. 

Bake until the topping begins to turn golden brown and the filling is bubbly underneath, about 15 to 18 minutes.  


START RECIPE

Creamy Braised Pork Chops (or Chicken) 
INGREDIENTS 
1 teaspoon paprika 
1 teaspoon onion powder 
1 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 
1 1/4 pounds pork chops, boneless and thin 
4 tablespoons butter, divided 
1 cup heavy cream 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a small bowl mix together the paprika, onion powder, garlic powder, salt and pepper until well combined. Sprinkle over both sides of the pork chops until evenly coated.  

Melt 2 tablespoons of the butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Sear the pork chops until golden brown on both sides, about 2 to 3 minutes per side. 

Add the heavy cream and the rest of the butter to the pan, turn the heat down to low, and cover with a tight-fitting lid. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes more, until the pork is done all the way through (no longer pink in the middle). Remove the lid and let the sauce thicken for another minute and serve. 


START RECIPE

Slow Cooker Sweet Potato & Black Bean Enchiladas 
INGREDIENTS 
1 large sweet potato, peeled and cut into a medium dice 
1 small onion, cut into a medium dice 
2 tbsp olive oil, extra virgin 
2 tbsp cumin 
1 tsp chili powder 
1 tsp kosher salt 
20 ounces canned enchilada sauce, (2) 10-ounce cans 
12 tortillas, whole-grain corn 
15.5 ounces canned black beans, drained and rinsed 
14.5 ounces canned diced tomatoes, drained 
1 1/3 cups Monterey Jack cheese, shredded 
3 ounces feta cheese, crumbled 
1 bunch cilantro, chopped 
1 small avocado, sliced 
1/2 cup Greek yogurt 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Brush the inside of the slow cooker with a little olive oil. 

In a large bowl, combine sweet potato, onion, olive oil, cumin, chili powder and salt. Toss to coat. 

Add 1/3 can of enchilada sauce to bottom of slow cooker. 

Arrange 3 tortillas to cover the bottom. 

Cover tortillas with 1/3 of potato and onion mixture. 

Add 1/3 can of black beans as next layer. 

Add 1/3 can of diced tomatoes as next layer. 

Add 1/3 can of enchilada sauce. 

Add 1/3 cup of Monterey Jack cheese. 

Repeat the same for 2 more layers. 

Cover enchiladas with remaining tortillas and enchilada sauce. 

Top with remaining Monterey Jack cheese and sprinkle with feta. 

Cook enchiladas in slow cooker on low for 2 1/2 to 3 hours, until sweet potatoes are tender and cheese is melted. 

Garnish with cilantro and avocado. Top with Greek yogurt. 

START RECIPE

Pesto Salmon Sheet Pan Dinner 

INGREDIENTS 
1 pound salmon, skin and bones removed 
1 pound zucchini and/or yellow summer squash, (2 small) cut into 1 pieces 
1/2 pound cherry tomatoes 
1 cup spinach leaves 
1 cup basil leaves, fresh 
2/3 cup Parmesan cheese, freshly grated 
1/2 cup pine nuts 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
2 cloves garlic, crushed or minced 
4 servings wild rice, (optional), prepared according to package directions 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.  

On a sheet pan, arrange the salmon in the middle with the cut veggies and cherry tomatoes in a circle around it. Set aside. 

In a food processor combine the spinach, basil, Parmesan, pine nuts, olive oil and garlic. Blend until smooth. Spread the pesto on top of the salmon and spoon the remainder on top of the veggies. 

Bake until the salmon is done (no longer dark pink in the middle) and the zucchini/squash can easily be pierced with a fork, about 18 to 20 minutes. Serve warm and enjoy. We had ours with wild rice on the side.  


START RECIPE

Chicken Nectarine Stir Fry (+ how food sensitivities were making us sick) 
INGREDIENTS 
3 tablespoons coconut oil 
1.5 pounds chicken breasts, very thinly sliced against the grain 
1 red onion, chopped into bite sized pieces 
1 red bell pepper, chopped into bite sized pieces 
1 jalapeno, thinly sliced 
2 nectarines, sliced into wedges 
1 cup basil, fresh, loosely packed 
kosher salt, to taste 
1 cup brown jasmine rice, cooked according to package directions 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a heavy skillet over high heat, add 1 tablespoon coconut oil and add 1/3 of the chicken pieces. Lightly brown on each side, about 30 seconds (they should be really thinly sliced so they should cook through quite quickly). When the chicken pieces are cooked through, transfer them to a separate bowl. Continue to cook the rest of the chicken in batches. Set the bowl of cooked chicken pieces aside. 

Add the remaining coconut oil to the same skillet (still over high heat) and add the red onions and fry them for 1 minute, constantly stirring with a pair of tongs.  

Add the bell pepper and let cook for another minute and then add the jalapeno and nectarine slices along with adding back in the chicken and any juice that collected in the bowl. Cook for another 1 - 2 minutes until everything is hot and the vegetables are crisp-tender.  

Remove from heat and stir in the fresh basil leaves, then season to taste with kosher salt and serve hot over steamed rice. 


START RECIPE

Lentil Sloppy Joe Stuffed Sweet Potatoes (+ how to save money while eating well) 

INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon coconut oil 
1 yellow onion, chopped 
1 green bell pepper, chopped 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 1/2 cups tomato puree, (strained tomatoes) 
1 1/2 teaspoons sea salt, plus more for sprinkling on potatoes 
1 1/2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
1 - 2 tablespoons pure maple syrup 
1 1/2 cups water 
1 teaspoon chili powder 
1 cup red lentils, dried 
4 - 6 sweet potatoes, (see notes below) or your favorite sandwich buns 
parsley, for garnish (optional) 
green onions, for garnish (optional) 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large pot, melt the coconut oil over medium heat and sautй the onion, bell pepper, and garlic until tender, 8 - 10 minutes. Add the tomato puree, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt, mustard, 1 tablespoon of the maple syrup, the water, chili powder, and lentils and bring the mixture to a rolling boil. 

Lower the heat to a simmer and cover to cook until the lentils are very tender, about 20 minutes. Stir intermittently through the simmering process to make sure none of the lentils sticks to the bottom of the pot. When the lentils are tender, adjust any seasonings as needed, adding up to 1 tablespoon maple syrup to taste. 
Slice the sweet potatoes in half lengthwise and gently mash with a fork, sprinkle with salt, and spoon the filling over the top and garnish, or simply serve the filling in your favorite sandwich bun. 

START RECIPE

Braised Asian Meatballs and Cabbage 
INGREDIENTS 
1 pound ground pork 
3 tablespoons soy sauce 
2 teaspoons ginger, peeled and minced 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon toasted sesame oil 
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
1 tablespoon coconut oil 
1/2 large green cabbage, trimmed and sliced (or 1 whole small green cabbage) 
1 cup chicken broth, or veggie broth 
brown rice noodles, cooked according to package directions (for serving)
green onions, sliced, optional garnish 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large mixing bowl, use your hands to combine the pork, soy sauce, ginger, garlic, sesame oil, and red pepper flakes. Form into golf ball sized meatballs and set aside. 

In a large sautй pan (with sides and a lid), heat the coconut oil over medium-high heat. Brown the meatballs on all sides, about 5 minutes.  

Add the cabbage and cook while stirring for another minute or two until it begins to wilt. 

Pour in the broth, cover with the lid, and cook until the meatballs are done all the way through (no longer pink on the inside), another 5 minutes. 

Remove the lid and simmer for another minute or two so the liquid can reduce slightly. Pour over rice noodles, garnish with green onions, and serve warm. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Sausage and Bell Pepper Kabobs 
INGREDIENTS 
4 links Italian sausage, uncooked 
2 bell peppers 
1/2 red onion 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons oregano, fresh, chopped 
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 
salt, to taste 
pepper 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat outdoor gas grill to medium-high heat, around 425° F (or prepare a charcoal fire).  

Cut each sausage link into 5 or 6 chunks. Chop the bell peppers and onion into square pieces about 2 inches in size. Thread onto skewers by alternating ingredients. 

In a small jar with a tight-fitting lid, combine the oil, garlic, oregano, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Shake to emulsify. Pour evenly over top of the kabobs. 

Grill until sausage is done all the way through and the peppers are tender, approximately 8 minutes per side. Serve warm with wild rice and coleslaw.  


START RECIPE

Cheesy Eggplant Bake (+ high-end Kamikoto knife set giveaway worth $1,295!) 
INGREDIENTS 
1 large eggplant, about 2 pounds, cut into 1-inch cubes 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
1 32-ounce jar marinara sauce 
6 ounces mozzarella cheese, shredded 
1/4 cup Parmesan cheese, freshly grated 
whole-wheat pasta, cooked, for serving 
basil, fresh, for serving 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 375° F. 

Heat the olive oil in your largest skillet. Add the cubed eggplant and cook while stirring until it darkens in color, about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. 

Pour half the marinara sauce in the bottom of a 13 x 9 inch baking dish. Shake it around to ensure it's evenly spread. Add the eggplant on top. 

Sprinkle all but 1/2 cup of the shredded mozzarella on top of the eggplant, pour in the rest of the sauce, and top it with the remaining mozzarella and grated parmesan. 

Bake until bubbly and golden brown, about 25 - 30 minutes. Serve warm over whole-wheat noodles and topped with fresh basil. 


START RECIPE

Green Goddess Chicken Salad 
INGREDIENTS 
CHICKEN: 
3 chicken breasts, bone-in, skin on, about 12 ounces each 
1/2 small onion, peeled (red is nice) 
4 large garlic cloves, peeled and smashed 
1 tablespoon salt, kosher 
DRESSING: 
1/2 cup Greek yogurt, unsweetened, plain, whole milk 
1 cup parsley, (I like flat-leaf) 
3 tablespoons chives, fresh and chopped 
2 tablespoons basil, fresh 
2 tablespoons dill, fresh 
1 green onions, chopped 
2 tablespoons lemon juice, freshly squeezed 
1 teaspoon anchovy paste, (or 2 anchovy fillets) 
1/2 cup olive oil 
3/4 teaspoon sea salt 
pepper 
SALAD: 
1 head romaine lettuce, leaves washed, dried, and left whole (or about 3 cups of chopped standard Romaine) 
1 cucumber, chopped 
2 stalks celery, sliced 
1/4 cup red onion, diced 
1/4 cup capers, drained 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Place the chicken in a saucepan with the onion, garlic, and salt and add water to cover. 

Bring to a boil over high heat, reduce heat to low, cover and simmer until the chicken is just cooked through, about 25 minutes. 
Allow chicken to cool in the poaching liquid, about 15 minutes. 

Remove the skin and bones and shred the meat into large, bite-size pieces. Set aside in a large bowl. 
Place all dressing ingredients except oil, salt, and pepper in a blender or food processor. With the motor running, slowly pour in olive oil. Taste for salt and pepper and add accordingly. 
Toss lettuce with enough dressing to coat lightly. Add remaining salad components and the chicken on top of lettuce and serve with extra dressing on the side. 


START RECIPE

Easy Thai Chicken and Rice 
INGREDIENTS 
1 cup brown rice, jasmine or basmati, cooked according to package directions 
1 13.5-ounce can coconut milk 
2 tablespoons fish sauce 
1 lime, juiced 
1 stalk lemongrass, outer layers removed and core finely chopped 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 1/2 pounds chicken breasts, cut into thick strips (or thighs) 
8 ounces shiitake mushrooms, stemmed and sliced 
1 handful cilantro 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large sautй pan (with sides and a lid), whisk together the coconut milk, fish sauce, lime juice, lemongrass, and garlic. Bring to a boil. 

Add the chicken and the mushrooms to the pan and simmer on low for 5 minutes. Flip over the pieces of chicken, cover the pan, and cook for 5 or 6 minutes more until the chicken is done (no longer pink) all the way through. 

Pour the chicken mixture over the cooked rice, garnish with fresh cilantro, and serve with a side of green veggies. 


START RECIPE

Smashed Potato Cakes with Kale 

INGREDIENTS 
1 pound baking potatoes, skin left on 
3 cups kale, shredded 
1 cup ricotta cheese 
1 cup whole-wheat breadcrumbs 
1 egg, beaten 
1/4 cup whole-wheat flour 
1 teaspoon onion powder 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 
olive oil, for cooking 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Set a pot of water over high heat to boil. Scrub the outside of the potatoes with water and a bristled brush (no need to peel!). Dice into 2-inch chunks. 

Add the potato pieces to the water and, once tender when pierced with a fork (after about 15 minutes), add the chopped kale to the boiling water and cook for one more minute. Drain. 

In a large bowl, use a potato masher to mix up the potatoes and kale with the ricotta. Once all the big chunks are gone, stir in the bread crumbs, egg, flour, and seasonings. Form mixture into small patties with your hands. 

Add a thin layer of olive oil to a large skillet over medium heat. Cook the patties until golden brown and cooked all the way through, 4 - 5 minutes on each side. Serve warm. 

START RECIPE

Creamy Shrimp Pasta with Lemon 

INGREDIENTS 
1 pound shrimp, peeled and deveined 
1/4 cup whole-wheat flour 
2 tablespoons butter 
1 red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and diced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
1 cup chicken broth 
1 tablespoon lemon juice, fresh 
1/4 cup heavy cream 
1/3 cup Parmesan cheese, freshly grated, plus more for garnish 
green onions, sliced, optional garnish 
8 ounces whole-wheat pasta, cooked, for serving 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Pat the shrimp dry and coat them evenly with the flour. Set aside. 

In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Cook the bell pepper for 2 - 3 minutes, until it begins to soften.  

Add the coated shrimp, garlic, and some salt and pepper to the pan and cook while stirring occasionally until the shrimp is cooked (and pink) all the way through and browned on the outside, 4 - 5 minutes. 

Add the broth, lemon juice, heavy cream, and Parmesan to the pan and cook while scraping the brown bits off the bottom of the pan until the sauce thickens, another 3 - 5 minutes.  

Pour over pasta and garnish with more Parmesan cheese and sliced green onions (if desired) and serve warm. 


START RECIPE

Semi-Homemade Spaghetti Sauce 
INGREDIENTS  
1 tablespoon olive oil  
1/2 onion, diced   
1 or 2 carrots, cut into small dice  
1 or 2 celery ribs, cut into small dice  
2 cloves garlic, minced  
1 pound ground beef 
salt, to taste 
pepper 
1/2 cup red wine, optional 
1 26 ounce jar spaghetti sauce 
basil, fresh, for serving 
oregano, fresh, for serving 
Parmesan cheese, freshly grated, for serving 
whole-wheat pasta, cooked, for serving 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the onion, carrot, and celery and cook while stirring until soft but not brown, 4 to 5 minutes. 

Stir in the garlic and cook for another minute. 

Add the ground beef to the pan and turn the heat up to medium high. Brown the meat while breaking it up with a spatula.  

Drain off the fat and discard (I do this by putting the lid over top then tilting it to empty the grease through a small crack into a coffee mug or other heat-proof container). Season with salt and pepper. 

Add the red wine to the pan (if using) and cook until almost completely boiled off. 

Pour in the sauce and bring to a light simmer.  

Serve over noodles and garnish with fresh basil or oregano and Parmesan cheese. 


START RECIPE

Pesto Chicken Grill Packets 
INGREDIENTS 
1 1/2 pounds chicken thighs, boneless and skinless, cut into 1 1/2 or 2 inch dice (or use chicken breasts) 
2 zucchini, cut into 1 inch dice 
1 pint cherry tomatoes, or grape tomatoes 
8 ounces mushrooms, baby bella or shiitake 
1 cup basil, just the leaves, fresh 
1 cup spinach, just the leaves, fresh 
2/3 cup Parmesan cheese, freshly grated 
1/2 cup pine nuts, raw 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
1/2 cup olive oil 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Cut foil into eight large pieces (about 14 - 16 inches long) and start four grill packets by laying them out double stacked in a plus sign shape. At this point, you can line them with parchment paper, if desired, by simply putting a single layer just on top of the foil. 

Evenly distribute the chunks of chicken, zucchini, tomatoes, and mushrooms. Set aside. 

To make the pesto, combine the basil, spinach, Parmesan, pine nuts, garlic, and olive oil in a small food processor and process until a smooth paste. Spoon over the top of each packet. Season with salt and pepper.  

To seal the packets, carefully bring up two of the long sides of the foil so the edges meet at the center. Fold the two edges over together at least three times. Fold the remaining open edges up on themselves at least two to three times and crimp them together with your fingers. 

Grill the packets for 8 - 9 minutes on each side or until the chicken is cooked all the way through (no longer pink in the center) and the veggies are tender. Serve warm with whole-grain pasta or couscous on the side if desired. 


START RECIPE

Swedish Meatballs (like IKEA’s!) 
INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon butter, or olive oil 
1/2 cup onion, minced 
1/2 pound ground beef  
1/2 pound ground pork  
1/4 cup whole-wheat breadcrumbs  
1/4 cup heavy cream  
1/2 teaspoon salt  
1/4 teaspoon pepper  
1 pinch allspice 
5 large carrots, peeled and cut into 1-inch chunks 
2 tablespoons whole-wheat flour 
1 1/2 cups broth, beef, chicken, or veggie 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
1/2 teaspoon soy sauce 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Cook the onions while stirring occasionally until they begin to soften, 2 or 3 minutes. 

Dump the cooked onions into a large bowl along with the beef, pork, breadcrumbs, 1/4 cup heavy cream, and spices. Mix well by hand and form into 1 1/2 inch meatballs. 

Turn the skillet to medium high and add the meatballs and carrots. Cook until the meatballs are brown and almost crispy on all sides, about 5 to 6 minutes.  

Sprinkle the flour over top and cook while stirring for another minute to allow it to absorb. Pour in the broth, 1/2 cup cream, and soy sauce and bring to a boil while scraping the brown bits off the bottom of the pan. Simmer until the sauce thickens to a gravy. the meatballs are cooked all the way through, and the carrots are tender when pierced with a fork, 6 to 8 minutes. 

Season with salt and pepper, spoon over whole-wheat egg noodles, and serve.  


START RECIPE

Chickpea and Farro Stew (+ how a new blogger finds her way into the real food world!) 
INGREDIENTS 
1 cup chickpeas, dried 
6 cups water 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
32 ounces chicken broth, or homemade stock 
28-oz can petite diced tomatoes, undrained 
1 1/2 cups onion, chopped. I used Vidalia 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt 
3/4 teaspoon pepper 
2 teaspoons cumin 
2 cups farro 
1/2 cup orange juice, freshly squeezed. Equivalent to 1 large orange 
1/4 cup cilantro, packed & freshly chopped 
1 tablespoon honey 
1 tablespoon butter, unsalted 
INSTRUCTIONS 
The night before cooking the stew, place the dried chickpeas in a large bowl and cover with the water. Transfer to the refrigerator and leave to soak overnight. 

The next day, drain the chickpeas. Heat a large sautй pan (for which you have a tightly fitted lid) over medium heat for one minute. Transfer the drained chickpeas and baking soda to the pan. Shake the pan to distribute the baking soda amongst the chickpeas and cook, stirring constantly for 5 minutes. 

Add the chicken broth, tomatoes, onion, garlic, salt, black pepper, and cumin and to the pan. Increase the heat to high and bring to a boil. Once boiling, cover the pan, reduce the heat to low, and cook the chickpeas and vegetables for 45 minutes.  

In a fine mesh colander, rinse the farro well and drain. Add it to the pan, cover, and cook an additional 45 minutes. 

To finish the stew, stir in the freshly squeezed orange juice, honey, butter, and fresh cilantro. Let rest 10 minutes, uncovered, and serve warm. 

START RECIPE

Sprouted Wheat Cheddar and Chive Scones 
INGREDIENTS 
2 cups sprouted wheat flour 
1 cup white whole wheat flour, or Pastry Flour 
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 cup (8 tablespoons) butter, cold, unsalted 
1 cup sharp cheddar cheese, plus extra for sprinkling on top 
1/3 cup chives, chopped, or finely chopped scallions (both white and green parts)
1 large egg 
1 cup milk, plus additional to brush on top 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 425° F. Lightly grease a baking sheet or line it with parchment paper. 

Whisk together the flours, baking powder, and salt in a large mixing bowl. 

Work in the butter until crumbly and just a few pea-sized pieces of butter remain. 

Toss in the cheese and chives until evenly distributed. 

Whisk together the egg and milk then stir gently into the dry mixture just until the dough is evenly moistened, adding a tablespoon additional milk if necessary. The dough should be stiff but scoopable. 

Drop the scones by the 1/3-cupful (a scone / muffin scoop works well here) onto the prepared pan leaving 2 inches of space between each scone (10 - 12 scones). 

Brush the tops of the scones with milk, sprinkle them with extra cheddar if desired, and bake for 20 - 24 minutes, until golden brown. 

Remove the scones from the oven and transfer to a rack to cool. Serve warm or at room temperature. 


START RECIPE

Slow Cooker Chicken Banh Mi 
INGREDIENTS 
1 half onion, sliced 
1 1/2 pounds chicken thighs, boneless and skinless 
3 tablespoons toasted sesame oil 
3 tablespoons lime juice 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 tablespoon honey 
1 teaspoon ginger, ground 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper, red 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Place the sliced onion in the bottom of the slow cooker and put the chicken thighs on top. 
Whisk together the sesame oil, lime juice, garlic, honey, and spices and pour over top. Cook on high for 4 hours. 
Shred chicken with two forks and mix into the sauce with the onions. Serve on a sandwich with pickled or fresh veggies. More serving ideas here. 


START RECIPE

Yellow Split Pea Fritters   
INGREDIENTS 
1 cup yellow split peas, soaked 4+ hours 
1 onion, medium, chopped 
2 - 3 cloves garlic, peeled and chopped 
1 handful cilantro, chopped 
1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
avocado oil, or olive oil, for shallow frying 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Soak yellow split peas for a minimum of 4 hours. Drain and rinse. delimSTE
Add all ingredients to a food processor and pulse until combined. delimSTE

Heat 1 - 2 teaspoons oil in a skillet. Scoop a spoonful of mixture into your hand and form into a loose ball. Add to pan and flatten with a spatula. Be careful not to overcrowd. delimSTE
Cook until golden brown, approximately 3 minutes, flip and repeat until cooked on the other side. delimSTE

START RECIPE

ASIAN GLAZED FISH	
INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE FISH 
1 pound mild white fish, (such as flounder, cod, or mahi mahi) 
1/2 cup whole-wheat flour, I used a gluten-free 1:1 substitute for this crowd 
2 tablespoons coconut oil 
FOR THE SAUCE 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon ginger, freshly grated 
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
1/3 cup water 
3 tablespoons soy sauce, I used gluten-free tamari 
1 tablespoon honey 
1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar 
OPTIONAL GARNISH 
green onions, sliced 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Cut the fish into 1-inch chunks and coat all sides with the flour. 
Melt the coconut oil in a skillet over medium heat and cook the fish on both sides until it's golden brown and cooked (white and flaky) all the way through, about 5 - 6 minutes. If you chose seafood that's on the thinner side, it will not take as long to cook. 
Transfer the fish to a clean plate and add the garlic, ginger, and red pepper to the same pan. Cook for 1 minute while scraping up the brown bits off the bottom of the pan and stirring. (I found that the gluten-free flour stuck a little more than normal during this step - be careful not to let it burn!) 
Pour in the water, soy sauce, honey, and vinegar and cook while stirring occasionally until it thickens, 2 - 3 minutes. Add the fish back into the pan to coat, garnish with green onions if desired, and serve. 


START RECIPE

EASY MEXICAN CHICKEN 
INGREDIENTS 
1 1/2 teaspoons olive oil 
1/2 onion, medium, diced 
1/2 cup frozen corn 
1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 
 10-oz can chicken, Valley Fresh organic, drained (see note) 
1 can diced tomatoes, drained 
1 can black beans, rinsed and drained 
cheese, shredded, optional 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat olive oil in a skillet or cast iron pan. Add onion and cook, stirring occasionally, for 2 - 3 minutes. 
Add corn and cumin and cook for 1 minute. 
Add chicken, tomatoes, and black beans and cook for 4 - 5 minutes with an occasional stir. 
Add cheese and cook to combine for one minute. 
Serve on tortillas, with rice, or on tortilla chips. 

START RECIPE

WILD MUSHROOM AND BRUSSELS SPROUTS QUESADILLAS  

INGREDIENTS 
2 tablespoons butter, + extra for cooking the quesadillas 
2 shallots, diced 
8 ounces brussels sprouts, trimmed and thinly sliced 
8 ounces mushrooms, thinly sliced (any variety - we enjoyed shiitake in this dish) 
1 teaspoon chili powder 
Ѕ teaspoon oregano 
Ѕ teaspoon salt 
2 Ѕ cups Monterey Jack cheese, shredded 
Ѕ cup feta cheese, crumbled 
8 whole-wheat tortillas, store-bought or homemade 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large skillet, melt the 2 tablespoons butter over medium-low heat. Add shallots and sliced sprouts to the pan and cook, stirring occasionally, until they begin to brown, 3 - 5 minutes. 
Add the mushrooms and spices to the pan and cook for another 3 - 5 minutes, until the sprouts are tender when pierced with a fork. 
In a large bowl, combine the two cheeses. Evenly divide the cheeses and filling among four of the tortillas and top with the remaining tortillas. 
For each quesadilla, spread a little butter on top and then flip it over into the skillet set on medium heat (use the same skillet as used for the veggies or a large griddle set on 375° F). Spread a little butter on the top before flipping to cook the other side. Cook both sides until golden brown and the cheese is melted on the inside. 
Serve with sour cream, lime wedges, and fresh cilantro. 

START RECIPE

SLOW COOKER MEXICAN LASAGNA 
INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 onion, large, diced 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 pound ground turkey, lean 
1 teaspoon cumin 
1 teaspoon salt, kosher 
1/2 teaspoon chili powder 
1 egg, whisked 
1/2 cup sour cream 
1 cup carrots, peeled and grated (about 2 carrots) 
1 cup frozen corn, defrosted 
1/4 cup cilantro, chopped 
1 12-oz package corn tortillas, 12 tortillas 
2 cups cheese, Mexican blend 
2 16-oz jars salsa, mild and chunky 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat 1 tbsp of olive oil in a large sautй pan and cook the onions for 3 minutes. Add the garlic and sautй an additional minute. 
Add the ground turkey meat, cumin, salt and chili powder and cook for 6-7 minutes until cooked through. Place turkey mixture aside and cool. 
In a large bowl, whisk the egg and sour cream together. Add the cooled turkey mixture, carrots, corn and cilantro and mix to combine. 
Spread a 1 cup of salsa on the bottom of the crock pot. 
Layer 5 tortillas on top of the salsa, cutting them if necessary to fit the crock pot and covering the salsa completely. 
Place half the turkey mixture on top of the tortillas and top with 1 cups of salsa and 1/2 cup of cheese. 
Add another layer of 3 tortillas on top of the cheese. Pour the remaining turkey mixture on top of the tortillas and top with another 1/2 cup of cheese.
Top the lasagna with another layer of tortillas, pour the remaining salsa on top and cover with 1 cup of cheese. 
Cook on low for 2 1/2 hours. 

START RECIPE

ROASTED VEGGIE AND RICOTTA PIZZA 
INGREDIENTS 
1 eggplant, trimmed and cut into 1/2 dice 
1 zucchini, trimmed and cut into 1/2 dice 
2 shallots, peeled and diced 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar 
1 teaspoon salt 
pepper, to taste 
1 batch pizza dough, I used Simple Mills* 
3/4 cup pizza sauce 
8 ounces mozzarella cheese, shredded (2 cups) 
1/3 cup ricotta cheese 
1 handful basil, fresh, leaves only, sliced 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 425° F. 
On a baking sheet, toss together the eggplant, zucchini, shallots, garlic, olive oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Roast until veggies begin to brown and are tender when pierced with a fork, about 20 - 25 minutes. Transfer veggies to a bowl and set aside. 
Change oven temperature according to directions for pizza dough. Roll out the dough into one large rectangle and place on the same baking sheet used for the veggies. Fold over a crust around the edges and pinch down with a fork. Pre-bake dough if pizza crust recipe calls for it. 
Smear the pizza sauce in one even layer on top of the dough. Sprinkle with the mozzarella and then about half the veggies (save the rest of the veggies for another day. I figured it's better to be left with cooked veggies than half a raw eggplant and zucchini!). 
Add the ricotta in dollops on top and bake according to pizza crust directions. At the end, broil on high for 1 minute to brown the ricotta. 
Sprinkle with fresh basil leaves and Parmesan cheese and serve. 

START RECIPE

CREAMY LENTIL LASAGNA	 

Ingredients
LENTIL CREAM SAUCE AND NOODLES 
5 tablespoons butter 
Ѕ onion, peeled and diced 
2 carrots, peeled and diced 
8 ounces mushrooms, sliced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
4 tablespoons whole-wheat flour 
Ѕ teaspoon salt, + more to taste if using homemade broth 
pepper, to taste 
3 cups milk 
3 cups chicken broth, or vegetable 
1 cup water 
8 ounces whole-wheat lasagna 
CHEESE MIXTURE 
8 ounces mozzarella cheese, shredded 
2 cups ricotta cheese 
1 cup parmesan cheese, grated, divided 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 450° F. 
In a large sautй pan (with sides) or a sauce pan, melt the butter over medium heat. Stir in the onion and carrots and cook until they begin to soften, 2 or 3 minutes. Add the lentils, mushrooms, and garlic to the pan and cook while stirring until the garlic begins to smell fragrant but does not brown, about 1 or 2 minutes. 
Stir in the flour, salt, and pepper so it coats the veggies. As soon as the flour begins to brown (about 1 - 2 minutes), stir in the milk, broth, and water. Bring the liquid to a boil, turn down to medium-low, and stir occasionally until it thickens and the lentils are tender, about 30 - 35 minutes. 
In a large bowl, mix together the mozzarella, ricotta, and ѕ cup of the Parmesan. 
In a rectangular casserole dish, layer the ingredients in this order: one-third of the sauce on the bottom, one-third of the noodles next, then half of the cheese mixture. Repeat with another layer of sauce, noodles, and cheese with the last layer of noodles going on top of that. Then smooth the final layer of sauce on top of the noodles. Any noodles on the top that don't get covered in sauce could get crispy so be careful about even coverage. Top with the remaining ј cup Parmesan cheese. 
Bake at 450° until golden brown on top, about 15 - 20 minutes. If your casserole is cold when you start (either from the fridge or defrosted completely from the freezer), then you'll need to increase the baking time. 

START RECIPE

JAPANESE MEATBALL & RAMEN NOODLE BOWLS 

INGREDIENTS
1 acorn squash, small 
1 - 2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 1/2 pounds fresh (cooked) whole-grain ramen noodles 
1/2 pound bok choy 
FOR THE MEATBALLS 
1 1/8 pound ground pork 
1 sheet nori, crumbled or finely chopped (the black stuff used to roll up sushi) 
1/4 cup whole-wheat breadcrumbs 
3 green onions, diced (white and green parts divided) 
1 one-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and minced (divided) 
1 teaspoon white sesame seeds, regular 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
FOR THE SAUCE 
1/2 cup water 
1/4 cup white miso paste 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon honey 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Preheat the oven to 450° F. Cut and discard the ends of the squash. Cut it in half lengthwise then cut 1/4-inch thick slices crosswise. Toss squash pieces with olive oil on a baking sheet, arrange in a single layer, and roast until tender when pierced with a fork, about 15 - 20 minutes. 
Boil the ramen noodles according to package directions and set aside. 
For the sauce, whisk together the water, miso paste, soy sauce, and honey and set aside. 
Discard the root ends of the bok choy and roughly chop the remaining leaves and stems. 
In a large bowl, use your hands to combine the pork, crumbled nori, breadcrumbs, half the white bottoms of the green onions, half the ginger, sesame seeds, salt, and pepper. Form into about 24 equal-sized meatballs. 
In a large pan with high sides (or a pot), heat 1 tablespoon olive oil on medium-high heat. Add the meatballs and brown on all sides until cooked all the way through, about 6 - 8 minutes. 
Stir in the remaining ginger and white parts of the green onions for about 1 minute. Whisk in the sauce ingredients along with 2 cups of water and the bok choy. Simmer on medium-low, stirring occasionally, until thoroughly combined and the bok choy has wilted, 4 - 6 minutes. 
Divide the ramen noodles among 4 or 5 bowls. Top with meatballs, sauce, and veggies (including the squash). Garnish with remaining green parts of the green onions and serve warm. 

START RECIPE

SPAGHETTI SQUASH CARBONARA 

INGREDIENTS 
1 spaghetti squash, about 3 pounds 
8 ounces bacon 
1/2 onion, peeled and diced 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 cup heavy cream 
1/2 cup parmesan cheese, freshly grated 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 400° F. Cut the squash in half longways and scoop out (and discard) the seeds. Place it flesh side down on an oiled baking sheet and bake until tender when pierced with a fork, about 40 - 50 minutes. When ready, use a fork to shred the squash into noodle-sized pieces. 
Meanwhile, cook the bacon in a large skillet over medium heat until brown on both sides and crispy. Move the bacon to a paper towel lined plate and reserve 1 tablespoon of the bacon grease in the pan. 
In a bowl, whisk together the heavy cream, eggs, and grated cheese and set aside. 
Cook the onion and garlic in the bacon grease over medium heat for about 2 - 3 minutes. Add the cream mixture to the hot pan while whisking continuously (so it doesn't curdle). Bring to a light boil while still whisking and cook for another minute or two until the sauce slightly thickens - it doesn't take long! 
Crumble the bacon and transfer it and the squash noodles to the skillet with the sauce, stir to combine, and serve warm. 

START RECIPE

BEST EVER STEAK BUTTER! 

INGREDIENTS 
6 tablespoons butter, softened 
1 tablespoon parsley, loosely packed 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 
1/2 teaspoon lemon pepper 
1/8 teaspoon pepper 
1/8 teaspoon salt 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Combine all ingredients in a mini food processor until smooth. Smear over warm steaks and serve. 


START RECIPE

BREAKFAST ENCHILADAS 
 
INGREDIENTS: 
1/2 cup enchilada sauce 
2 small flour tortillas 
1/2 cup refried beans 
1/2 cup shredded beef 
1/4 cup Monterrey Jack, shredded 
1 egg 
1/4 avocado, diced 
2 tbsp fresh cilantro, chopped 

DIRECTIONS: 
Make the shredded beef- click link up above for the recipe. 

Make the refried beans  – click link up above for the recipe. 

Make the enchilada sauce – click link up above for the recipe. 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a small baking dish with cooking spray then pour a bit of enchilada sauce in the bottom. 

Spread some refried beans down the center of a small flour tortilla. Top the beans with some shredded beef: roll and place into the prepared baking pan. Repeat with another tortilla. Pour enchilada sauce down each rolled tortilla and top with some shredded Monterrey jack cheese. 

Cover with tinfoil and place into the oven to bake for 20 minutes. Remove the tinfoil and cook an additional 5 minutes, or until the cheese is completely melted. 

While the enchiladas are cooking for the last five minutes, cook the egg. Heat some cooking spray in a small skillet over medium heat. Crack the egg into the pan and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Once the white of the egg is no longer transparent, add the 2 teaspoons of water to the pan and cover with a lid. Cook for about 1 minute or until the yolk is clouded over. Don’t over cook or the yolk will be hard. 

Remove the enchiladas from the oven and place the egg on top. Add some diced avocado and chopped cilantro then serve immediately. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE

Roasted Raspberries and Blueberries with Vanilla Bean 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 cups of fresh raspberries 
2 cups of fresh blueberries 
1/4 cup sugar, to taste (depending on the sweetness of the berries) 
1 vanilla bean, sliced down the center and seeds removed with a knife 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat a baking dish with cooking spray. 

Place the raspberries and the blueberries in the prepared baking dish and toss with the sugar and vanilla bean seeds – click link up above for seed removal instructions. 

Place into the oven and roast in the oven for 20 minutes. Cool to room temperature before serving. 

Great plain or on French toast, ice cream, pancakes, crepes, yogurt, or waffles. Enjoy. 

Recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 	

START RECIPE

Skillet Egg and Potatoes 
Skillet Egg and Potatoes 

We had a fun weekend camping at the coast to celebrate Mother’s Day. I hope all of you had a great weekend. I have a massive pile of laundry to do today – UGH! The downside of camping at the coast! Since I was staying in the house today to get stuff done, I was in the mood for a tasty breakfast. This egg & potato skillet took a little more time to make but it was worth it. I sautйed onions, peppers, and sliced baby potatoes until tender and golden brown then cracked an egg in the center of the mini skillet and baked it in the oven until my egg was cooked to my liking – yolky & delicious! It was such a good breakfast that I was bummed I didn’t cook two eggs instead of just one. Next time! Maybe tomorrow. 

Skillet Egg and Potatoes 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. 

Cook the baby potatoes in a pot of boiling water for 7-10 minutes, or until fork tender. Remove from the water and let the potatoes cool. Slice. 

Add the olive oil to the oven proof skillet. Add the sliced potatoes, onion, and peppers. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes, or until the onions and peppers are tender and the potatoes are golden brown. Season with sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, paprika, and crushed red pepper flakes, to taste. Add the minced garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Remove from the heat. Push the potatoes and onions towards the sides of the skillet then crack an egg into the center. Season the egg with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Skillet Egg and Potatoes 

Place into the oven and cook for 7-9 minutes, or until the egg is cooked to your liking. Remove from the oven and serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Skillet Egg and Potatoes 


 

SKILLET EGG AND POTATOES 
 

Yield: 1Total Time: 25-30 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
6 baby potatoes, par cooked & sliced 
1 tsp olive oil 
1/4 small sweet yellow onion, sliced thinly 
1/8 small red bell pepper, sliced thinly 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Paprika, to taste 
Crushed red pepper flakes, to taste 
1 clove of garlic, minced 
1-2 eggs 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. 

Cook the baby potatoes in a pot of boiling water for 7-10 minutes, or until fork tender. Remove from the water and let the potatoes cool. Slice. 

Add the olive oil to the oven proof skillet. Add the sliced potatoes, onion, and peppers. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes, or until the onions and peppers are tender and the potatoes are golden brown. Season with sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, paprika, and crushed red pepper flakes, to taste. Add the minced garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Remove from the heat. Push the potatoes and onions towards the sides of the skillet then crack an egg into the center. Season the egg with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Place into the oven and cook for 7-9 minutes, or until the egg is cooked to your liking. Remove from the oven and serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 

START RECIPE

Blackberry Lemon Curd 
Blackberry Lemon Curd 

My kids absolutely love lemon curd. They spread it on toast, waffles, pancakes, muffins, ice cream, and sugar cookies. It’s really easy to make and seriously tastes amazing. I had a container of blackberries that looked plump and tasty but were sadly a bit too tart. I thought about roasting them but decided to make them into a curd. This curd is not only beautiful, it’s delicious too. My kids’ mouths were watering waiting for me to finish taking the pictures so they could dig in. They LOVED it. 

Blackberry Lemon Curd 

Place the blackberries and lemon juice into a saucepan over medium heat. Cook, mashing them with a masher, for about 5-7 minutes. Strain the mixture through a very fine wire mesh strainer. Set aside to cool. 

Combine the zest of the lemon and the white sugar together with your fingers until it’s well combined and the sugar is fragrant. Set aside. 

Cream the butter with a hand mixer until creamy and smooth. Add the fragrant sugar and blend until well combined. Add the eggs, one at a time and mix thoroughly. Add 1/2 cup of blackberry juice and blend until well combined. 

Pour into a small saucepan and cook over medium heat, stirring often, until thickened, about 10 minutes at about 170 degrees. Remove from heat and let cool before pouring it into a container. Side Note: If you accidentally overcook the sauce, it may curdle a bit. Simply pour through the fine mesh strainer to remove any clumps. 

Serve over  crepes, pancakes & waffles, toast, ice cream, muffins, or sugar cookies. Store, well sealed, in the refrigerator. Enjoy. 

Blackberry Lemon Curd 


 

BLACKBERRY LEMON CURD 
 

Yield: 1 1/4 cupsTotal Time: 15 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
10 oz fresh blackberries 
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 
Zest from 1 lemon 
3/4 cup of sugar 
4 tbsp unsalted butter, room temperature 
2 jumbo eggs 

DIRECTIONS: 
Place the blackberries and lemon juice into a saucepan over medium heat. Cook, mashing them with a masher, for about 5-7 minutes. Strain the mixture through a very fine wire mesh strainer. Set aside to cool. 

Combine the zest of the lemon and the white sugar together with your fingers until it’s well combined and the sugar is fragrant. Set aside. 

Cream the butter with a hand mixer until creamy and smooth. Add the fragrant sugar and blend until well combined. Add the eggs, one at a time and mix thoroughly. Add 1/2 cup of blackberry juice and blend until well combined. 

Pour into a small saucepan and cook over medium heat, stirring often, until thickened, about 10 minutes at about 170 degrees. Remove from heat and let cool before pouring it into a container. Side Note: If you accidentally overcook the sauce, it may curdle a bit. Simply pour through the fine mesh strainer to remove any clumps. 
Serve over crepes, pancakes & waffles, toast, ice cream, muffins, or sugar cookies. Store, well sealed, in the refrigerator. Enjoy. 

Recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 

START RECIPE

Roasted Strawberries with Vanilla Bean 
Roasted Strawberries with Vanilla Bean 

Ina Garten is a genius!!! Seriously, every recipe I’ve ever tried of hers is amazing. I had some strawberries and decided to try roasting them. I remember seeing a recipe awhile back that Ina had for roasting berries with vanilla bean seeds. I decided to adapt the recipe a bit by just using the strawberries I had on hand. The berries smelled incredible while they roasted. After sampling them, I couldn’t get over how much flavor the vanilla bean seeds added to the strawberries. My kids had these berries over vanilla ice cream for dessert and over waffles for breakfast. They absolutely LOVED them! I’ll be roasting berries like this from now on!!! 

Roasted Strawberries with Vanilla Bean 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat a baking dish with cooking spray. 

Place the strawberries in the prepared baking dish and toss with the sugar and vanilla bean seeds (click here to see instructions on seed removal). 

Roasted Strawberries with Vanilla Bean 

Place into the oven and roast in the oven for 20 minutes. Cool to room temperature before serving. Great plain or on yogurt, ice cream, pancakes, or waffles. Enjoy. 

Roasted Strawberries with Vanilla Bean 

 

ROASTED STRAWBERRIES WITH VANILLA BEAN 

Yield: 4Total Time: 20 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
16 oz strawberries, hulls removed & sliced in half or thirds, depending on the size 
2-3 tbsp sugar, depending on the sweetness of the berries 
1 vanilla bean, sliced down the center and seeds removed with a knife 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat a baking dish with cooking spray. 

Place the strawberries in the prepared baking dish and toss with the sugar and vanilla bean seeds. Place into the oven and roast in the oven for 20 minutes. Cool to room temperature before serving. Great plain or on yogurt, ice cream, pancakes, or waffles. Enjoy. 
Adapted recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 

START RECIPE

Skillet Huevos Rancheros 
Skillet Huevos Rancheros 

This was a perfect Sunday morning breakfast. I sautйed some onion then added drained black beans along with some seasonings and enchilada sauce. I layered a small cast iron skillet with a corn tortilla topped with the black bean mixture then cracked a couple of eggs on top along with some tomato. I baked it until the egg whites were cooked through but the yolks were still runny. I topped it with cotija cheese, bits of diced jalapeno, and fresh cilantro. I served these huevos rancheros with spicy salsa and lime wedges. My husband loved it and so did I. 

Skillet Huevos Rancheros 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat a small cast iron pan with cooking spray. 

Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add the onion and sautй for 3-5 minutes or until softened. Add the rinsed and drained black beans to the skillet along with the enchilada sauce. Season with a couple dashes of oregano, coriander, cumin, garlic powder, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook for 3-5 minutes. Remove from heat. 

Heat the tortilla over a gas flame on both sides for 20-30 seconds OR heat in a microwave for 10 seconds, or until pliable. Place the tortilla in the bottom of the prepared cast iron skillet. 

Skillet Huevos Rancheros 

Spoon some of the black bean mixture on top of the tortilla. Crack one or two eggs in the center. Sprinkle a few diced tomatoes on top. 

Place into the oven and cook for 10-12 minutes or until the whites are cooked through but the yolks are still runny. Remove from the oven and top with diced jalapeno, fresh cilantro, and cotija cheese. Serve with salsa and lime wedges on the side. Enjoy! 

Skillet Huevos Rancheros 


 

SKILLET HUEVOS RANCHEROS 
 

Yield: 1Cook Time: 15-20 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 tsp vegetable oil 
1/4 sweet yellow onion, sliced 
Can of black beans, drained & rinsed 
2-3 tbsp enchilada sauce 
Dash of oregano, to taste 
Dash of coriander, to taste 
Dash of cumin, to taste 
Dash of garlic powder, to taste 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
1 corn tortilla 
2 eggs 
3 grape tomatoes, diced 
2 tsp jalapeno, diced 
1 tbsp fresh cilantro 
2 tsp crumbled cotija cheese 
Salsa 
Lime wedges 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat a small cast iron pan with cooking spray. 

Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add the onion and sautй for 3-5 minutes or until softened. Add the rinsed and drained black beans to the skillet along with the enchilada sauce. Season with a couple dashes of oregano, coriander, cumin, garlic powder, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook for 3-5 minutes. Remove from heat. 

Heat the tortilla over a gas flame on both sides for 20-30 seconds OR heat in a microwave for 10 seconds, or until pliable. Place the tortilla in the bottom of the prepared cast iron skillet. Spoon some of the black bean mixture on top of the tortilla. Crack one or two eggs in the center. Sprinkle a few diced tomatoes on top. 

Place into the oven and cook for 10-12 minutes or until the whites are cooked through but the yolks are still runny. Remove from the oven and top with diced jalapeno, fresh cilantro, and cotija cheese. Serve with salsa and lime wedges on the side. Enjoy! 

Recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 

START RECIPE

Egg, Ham, and Extra Sharp Cheddar Breakfast Wrap 
Egg, Ham, and Extra Sharp Cheddar Breakfast Wrap 

I was in the mood for something light for lunch. I looked through the refrigerator and grabbed some tortillas, eggs, ham, green onion and cheese. I scrambled up the eggs along with the ham and cheese then rolled them up in a tortilla. A quick and easy lunch that I could eat on the go – perfect for busy days. 

Egg, Ham, and Extra Sharp Cheddar Breakfast Wrap 

Heat a skillet coated with cooking spray over medium heat. Combine the eggs with some sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Whisk until smooth. Pour the egg mixture into the hot skillet. Slowly fold the egg mixture from the bottom of the pan to the top. This will keep the eggs from overcooking and the middle section will stay soft and fluffy. Do this constantly for 1 or 2 minutes, or until the eggs are just set.  Add the sliced ham, green onions, and grated cheddar then toss to warm everything. Do not overcook. Remove from heat. 

Heat a flour tortilla in the microwave for a 10-15 seconds, or until warm and pliable. Spoon the egg and ham mixture down the center of the tortilla then roll. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Egg, Ham, and Extra Sharp Cheddar Breakfast Wrap 


 

EGG, HAM, AND EXTRA SHARP CHEDDAR BREAKFAST WRAP 
 

Yield: 1 wrapCook Time: 5 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
Cooking spray 
2 eggs 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
2 slices of Canadian Bacon, chopped 
1-2 tbsp extra sharp cheddar, grated 
2 tsp green onions, chopped 
1 flour tortilla, warmed 
Hot sauce, if desired 

DIRECTIONS: 
Heat a skillet coated with cooking spray over medium heat. Combine the eggs with some sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Whisk until smooth. Pour the egg mixture into the hot skillet. Slowly fold the egg mixture from the bottom of the pan to the top. This will keep the eggs from overcooking and the middle section will stay soft and fluffy. Do this constantly for 1 or 2 minutes, or until the eggs are just set. Add the sliced ham, green onions, and grated cheddar then toss to warm everything. Do not overcook. Remove from heat. 

Heat a flour tortilla in the microwave for a 10-15 seconds, or until warm and pliable. Spoon the egg and ham mixture down the center of the tortilla then roll. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 

START RECIPE
Baked Eggs with Sautйed Onions, Tomatoes, and Spinach 
Baked Eggs with Sautйed Onions, Tomatoes, and Spinach 

Guess what I am having again for breakfast tomorrow? This recipe! These eggs were super quick & simple to make – thankfully since I am still not feeling well, and so delicious. I dipped toast into the runny yolks and gobbled up every last bite. I loved the combination of the spicy sautйed veggies with the runny yolks and salty parmesan cheese. This was seriously my favorite breakfast in a very long time! Looking forward to doing it all over again tomorrow. 

Baked Eggs with Sautйed Onions, Tomatoes, and Spinach 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. 

Heat the olive oil in a small OVEN PROOF skillet over medium heat. Add the onions and crushed red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, for 3-5 minutes, or until softened. 
Add the sliced grape tomatoes and spinach then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, toss to coat evenly. Take the skillet off of the heat and spread the veggies towards the sides of the skillet. Add a teaspoon of water (this will help the veggies not burn & the eggs to not get browned on the bottom of the skillet). Carefully crack the eggs into the center of the skillet, making sure not to break the yolks. Season the top of the eggs with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste then sprinkle the top with parmesan cheese, to taste. 

Baked Eggs with Sautйed Onions, Tomatoes, and Spinach 

Place into the oven and bake for 9-10 minutes or until the egg whites are set but the yolks are still soft and runny. Remove from the oven and sprinkle with additional parmesan if desired. Serve plain or with toast. Enjoy! 

Baked Eggs with Sautйed Onions, Tomatoes, and Spinach 


 

BAKED EGGS WITH SAUTЙED ONIONS, TOMATOES, AND SPINACH 
 

Yield: 1Cook Time: 15 min. 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 tsp olive oil 
2 tbsp sweet yellow onion, diced finely 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
4-5 grape tomatoes, sliced 
1/4 cup baby spinach leaves 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
1 tsp water 
2 eggs 
Parmesan cheese, shredded, to taste 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. 

Heat the olive oil in a small OVEN PROOF skillet over medium heat. Add the onions and crushed red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, for 3-5 minutes, or until softened. 

Add the sliced grape tomatoes and spinach then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, toss to coat evenly. Take the skillet off of the heat and spread the veggies towards the sides of the skillet. Add a teaspoon of water (this will help the veggies not burn & the eggs to not get browned on the bottom of the skillet). Carefully crack the eggs into the center of the skillet, making sure not to break the yolks. Season the top of the eggs with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste then sprinkle the top with parmesan cheese, to taste. 

Place into the oven and bake for 9-10 minutes or until the egg whites are set but the yolks are still soft and runny. Remove from the oven and sprinkle with additional parmesan if desired. Serve plain or with toast. Enjoy! 

Recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 

START RECIPE

Baked Mini Frittata with Sautйed Spinach, Tomatoes, and Onion with Extra Sharp White Cheddar 
Baked Mini Frittata with Sautйed Spinach, Tomatoes, and Onion with Extra Sharp White Cheddar 

I was in the mood for a healthy lunch so I went to see what I had in the fridge. I found a couple of eggs, a handful of spinach, a bit of an onion, a little extra sharp white cheddar, and a few grape tomatoes. I sautйed the spinach, tomato, and onion along with a bit of garlic then tossed them together with the eggs and cheese in a small baking dish then placed it in the oven to bake. The frittata turned out fluffy and so delicious. I didn’t miss having meat in this flavorful dish and loved the combination of flavors. This was a terrific lunch but would be just as good served for breakfast or dinner. 

Baked Mini Frittata with Sautйed Spinach, Tomatoes, and Onion with Extra Sharp White Cheddar 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a mini baking dishes with cooking spray. 

Heat the olive oil in a sautй pan over medium heat then add the diced onion and sautй, stirring occasionally, for a few minutes. Add the spinach and tomatoes then cook, stirring occasionally, for 2 minutes, or until softened. Add the minced garlic to the pan then season with a pinch of crushed red pepper flakes, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook and stir constantly for 30 seconds. Remove from the heat. 

Whisk together the eggs and milk. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Sprinkle the bottom of the mini baking dish with half of the spinach & tomato mixture then top with extra sharp cheddar. 

Baked Mini Frittata with Sautйed Spinach, Tomatoes, and Onion with Extra Sharp White Cheddar 

Add the egg mixture then sprinkle the top with the remaining spinach & tomato mixture and extra sharp cheddar. 

Baked Mini Frittata with Sautйed Spinach, Tomatoes, and Onion with Extra Sharp White Cheddar 

Place into the oven and bake for 25-30 minutes, until cooked through. Remove from the oven and serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Baked Mini Frittata with Sautйed Spinach, Tomatoes, and Onion with Extra Sharp White Cheddar 


 

BAKED MINI FRITTATA WITH SAUTЙED SPINACH, TOMATOES, AND ONION WITH EXTRA SHARP WHITE CHEDDAR 
 

Yield: 1Total Time: 35-40 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 tsp olive oil 
1 handful of spinach 
3 tbsp sweet yellow onion, diced 
Handful of grape tomatoes, halved 
1 clove of garlic, minced 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
2 eggs 
1 tbsp milk 
1-2 tbsp extra sharp white cheddar, shredded 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a mini baking dishes with cooking spray. 

Heat the olive oil in a sautй pan over medium heat then add the diced onion and sautй, stirring occasionally, for a few minutes. Add the spinach and tomatoes then cook, stirring occasionally, for 2 minutes, or until softened. Add the minced garlic to the pan then season with a pinch of crushed red pepper flakes, sea salt, and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook and stir constantly for 30 seconds. Remove from the heat. 

Whisk together the eggs and milk. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Sprinkle the bottom of the mini baking dish with half of the spinach & tomato mixture then top with extra sharp cheddar. 

Add the egg mixture then sprinkle the top with the remaining spinach & tomato mixture and extra sharp cheddar. 

Place into the oven and bake for 25-30 minutes, until cooked through. Remove from the oven and serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 

START RECIPE


Crepes with Lemon Curd and Fresh Raspberries 
Crepes with Lemon Curd and Fresh Raspberries 

My daughter ed if I would make crepes for breakfast this morning. I normally just serve butter and powdered sugar on our breakfast crepes but I decided to try something different this time. I  grabbed the leftover Lemon Curd and some fresh raspberries out of the refrigerator and thought they would make delicious toppings for the crepes. My family slathered their crepes in lemon curd, rolled them up, tossed some fresh raspberries on top then sprinkled them with powdered sugar. These crepes were a huge hit & disappeared quickly. This is a quick and simple recipe but tastes gourmet and delicious – it is a wonderful breakfast treat but would also make a delicious dessert. 

Crepes with Lemon Curd and Fresh Raspberries 

Combine all ingredients in a large bowl: use immersion blender (or whisk) to mix crepe batter thoroughly. Make sure there are no lumps in the batter. 

Heat a small nonstick pan over medium heat. Spray with cooking spray and using a small ladle, spoon about 3-4 tablespoons of crepe batter into the hot pan. Tilt the pan clockwise so that the batter spreads evenly over the bottom of the pan. Cook for 30 seconds to 1 minute per side: flip and cook for 10 seconds then remove from pan. <em>Side Note: Most people only cook one side but I cook both.</em> 

Spread some lemon curd over the bottom of the crepe then roll. Sprinkle the top with raspberries and powdered sugar. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Crepes with Lemon Curd and Fresh Raspberries 


 

CREPES WITH LEMON CURD AND FRESH RASPBERRIES 

Yield: About 20 small crepes (served 4) 
INGREDIENTS: 
4 eggs 
1 1/3 cup milk 
1 tbsp melted butter 
1/2 tsp vanilla extract 
1 cup flour 
1 tbsp white sugar 
1/2 tsp salt 
Lemon curd, click link above for recipe 
Fresh raspberries 
Powdered sugar 

DIRECTIONS: 
Combine all ingredients in a large bowl: use immersion blender (or whisk) to mix crepe batter thoroughly. Make sure there are no lumps in the batter. 

Heat a small nonstick pan over medium heat. Spray with cooking spray and using a small ladle, spoon about 3-4 tablespoons of crepe batter into the hot pan. Tilt the pan clockwise so that the batter spreads evenly over the bottom of the pan. Cook for 30 seconds to 1 minute per side: flip and cook for 10 seconds then remove from pan. Side Note: Most people only cook one side but I cook both. 

Spread some lemon curd over the bottom of the crepe then roll. Sprinkle the top with raspberries and powdered sugar. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 


Lemon Curd 
Lemon Curd 

My daughter spent the night at a friend’s house this weekend. She came home raving about some lemon curd they had on crepes for breakfast and ed if we could make some. I just happened to have some lemons in the fruit bowl and the rest of the ingredients for Ina Garten’s recipe I found on the Food Network. It seriously took 15 minutes to prep and cook and the taste is unbelievable! This curd will be great on crepes, pancakes & waffles, toast, or muffins. I plan on spreading it on my kids blueberry pancakes tomorrow morning.  I will not be buying store bought curd again… homemade tastes better and is much less expensive! 

Lemon Curd 

Combine the zest of 2 lemons and the white sugar together with your fingers until it’s well combined and the sugar is fragrant. Set aside. 

Cream the butter with a hand mixer until creamy and smooth. Add the fragrant sugar and blend until well combined. Add the eggs, one at a time and mix thoroughly. Add the lemon juice and salt and blend until well combined. 

Pour into a small sauce pan and cook over medium heat, stirring often, until thickened, about 10 minutes at about 170 degrees. Remove from heat and let cool before pouring it into a container. Serve over  crepes, pancakes & waffles, toast, or muffins. Store, well sealed, in the refrigerator. Enjoy. 

Lemon Curd 


 

LEMON CURD 
 

Yield: 1 cupTotal Time: 15 min. 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 lemons, zested 
3/4 cup of sugar 
1/2 stick unsalted butter, room temperature, (4 tbsp) 
2 large eggs 
1/4 cup lemon juice (2-3 lemons) 
Pinch of salt 

DIRECTIONS: 
Combine the zest of 2 lemons and the white sugar together with your fingers until it’s well combined and the sugar is fragrant. Set aside. 

Cream the butter with a hand mixer until creamy and smooth. Add the fragrant sugar and blend until well combined. Add the eggs, one at a time and mix thoroughly. Add the lemon juice and salt and blend until well combined. 

Pour into a small sauce pan and cook over medium heat, stirring often, until thickened, about 10 minutes at about 170 degrees. Remove from heat and let cool before pouring it into a container. Serve over crepes, pancakes & waffles, toast, or muffins. Store, well sealed, in the refrigerator. Enjoy. 

Adapted recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 


START RECIPE
START RECIPE


CHICKEN AND QUINOA TORTILLA SOUP  
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS (12 CUPS) PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 45 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 
Everyone’s FAVORITE chicken tortilla soup, except made healthier and heartier with added quinoa. This cozy soup is full of fiber and protein to keep you full all day long! You can also add the easiest homemade crispy BAKED tortilla strips! 

INGREDIENTS: 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 onion, diced 
1 green bell pepper, diced 
2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
8 cups chicken stock 
1 (28-ounce) can diced tomatoes 
1 (15-ounce) can black beans, drained and rinsed 
1 1/2 cups corn kernels, frozen, canned or roasted 
1/2 cup quinoa 
Juice of 1 lime 
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro leaves 
FOR THE BAKED TORTILLA STRIPS 
4 corn tortillas, cut into thin strips 
1/2 teaspoon chili powder, or more, to taste 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
Spread tortilla strips in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet: season with chili powder, salt and pepper: coat with nonstick spray.. Place into oven and bake until crisp and golden, about 10-12 minutes, stirring halfway: set aside and let cool. 
Heat olive oil in a large stockpot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Season chicken with salt and pepper, to taste. Add chicken to the stockpot and cook until golden, about 2-3 minutes per side: set aside. 
Add garlic, onion and bell pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, about 3-4 minutes. 
Stir in tomato paste, chili powder, cumin and oregano until fragrant, about 1 minute. 
Stir in chicken stock, tomatoes, black beans, corn and chicken. Bring to a boil: reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, until chicken is tender and cooked through, about 20-25 minutes. Remove chicken from the stockpot and shred, using two forks. 
Stir quinoa and chicken into the stockpot. Simmer, uncovered, until quinoa is tender, about 15-20 minutes. Stir in lime juice and cilantro: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Serve immediately with baked tortilla strips, if desired. 

START RECIPE

FLAKY MILE HIGH BISCUITS 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 17, 2018	20 COMMENTS » 
Is there anything better than warm, hot-out-of-the-oven, mile high, flaky biscuits that just melts in your mouth? No, right? Because these are truly the best biscuits you will ever make right at home! 

Flaky Mile High Biscuits - Is there anything better than warm, hot-out-of-the-oven, mile high, flaky biscuits that just melts in your mouth? No, right? Because these are truly the best biscuits you will ever make right at home! 

You know those piping hot KFC biscuits they add to all the family meals? 


close x 
Well, they’re basically the best things ever. 

I would devour those as a child. I could care less for the fried chicken. Or the potato wedges. 

The biscuits were just pure life. 

And so are these biscuits. 

Except. Well, they’re completely homemade with a few embellishments. 

They are extra tall, extra buttery and extra flaky. The 3 most important elements in a biscuit. 

And if you do make these, I just  that you serve these warm and hot of the oven. 

It will make all of the difference. 

I will also say that a little bit of additional melted butter right on top never hurt anyone. 


FLAKY MILE HIGH BISCUITS  
YIELD: 10-12 BISCUITS PREP TIME: 45 MINUTES COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 5 MINUTES  
Is there anything better than warm, hot-out-of-the-oven, mile high, flaky biscuits that just melts in your mouth? No, right? Because these are truly the best biscuits you will ever make right at home!  

PRINT RECIPE  
INGREDIENTS:  
4 cups all-purpose flour 
4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1 cup unsalted butter, cut into cubes 
1 1/2 cups buttermilk 
1/4 cup unsalted butter, melted 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat: set aside. 
In a large bowl, combine flour, baking powder, salt and baking soda. Add cold butter, using your fingers to work the butter into the dry ingredients until it resembles coarse crumbs. Add buttermilk and stir using a rubber spatula until a soft dough forms. 
Working on a lightly floured surface, knead the dough 3-4 times until it comes together. Using a rolling pin, roll the dough into a 1 1/4-inch thick rectangle. Cut out 10-12 rounds using a 2 1/2-inch biscuit or cookie cutter. Place biscuits onto the prepared baking sheet: place in the freezer for 15 minutes. 
Remove biscuits from freezer and brush tops with butter. Place into oven and bake for 15-18 minutes, or until golden brown. 
Serve warm. 

START RECIPE

BAKED ZUCCHINI CHIPS 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 15, 2018	26 COMMENTS » 
Disclosure: This post is sponsored by Kettle Brand. As always, I only partner with brands that I love and truly believe in, allowing me to create more quick and easy recipes to get us through the week without breaking the bank. All opinions expressed are my own. 

The best zucchini chips EVER! They are perfectly seasoned and perfectly crunchy and crisp even though these are completely BAKED! You will not even be able to tell the difference. Promise! 

Baked Zucchini Chips - The best zucchini chips EVER! They are perfectly seasoned and perfectly crunchy and crisp even though these are completely BAKED! You will not even be able to tell the difference. Promise!   

Crispy baked zucchini chips?  

close x  

Um, yes, please!  

No one is about that soggy-chip life. Or that deep-fried life.  

So we have the perfect balance here.  

We have the crispiest zucchini chips that are actually completely baked!  

The secret?  

We’re using Kettle Brand® Himalayan Salt Potato Chips! Chips that are cooked 100% in avocado oil and perfectly seasoned with Himalayan salt.  

So serve as a side or appetizer or even dinner.  


We have it as all of the above.  

Baked Zucchini Chips - The best zucchini chips EVER! They are perfectly seasoned and perfectly crunchy and crisp even though these are completely BAKED! You will not even be able to tell the difference. Promise!  

BAKED ZUCCHINI CHIPS   
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 45 MINUTES  
The best zucchini chips EVER! They are perfectly seasoned and perfectly crunchy and crisp even though these are completely BAKED! You will not even be able to tell the difference. Promise!  

PRINT RECIPE  
INGREDIENTS:  
2 zucchinis, thinly sliced to 1/4-inch thick rounds 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/4 cup milk 
1 large egg 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 1/2 cups finely crushed Kettle Brand® Himalayan Salt Potato Chips 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley leaves 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
Season zucchini with garlic powder, salt and pepper, to taste. 
In a medium bowl, combine milk and egg: set aside. 
Working in batches, dredge zucchini rounds in flour, dip into the milk mixture, then dredge in crushed potato chips, pressing to coat. Place zucchini rounds in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet: coat with nonstick spray. 
Place into oven and bake golden brown and crisp, about 22-26 minutes. 
Serve immediately, garnished with parsley, if desired. 

START RECIPE

SHRIMP AND AVOCADO SALAD 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 13, 2018	5 COMMENTS » 
This tastes just like shrimp taco in salad form! Loaded with tomatoes, corn, black beans, cilantro, avocado and crushed tortilla chips with the very best cilantro lime dressing ever! 

Shrimp and Avocado Salad - This tastes just like shrimp taco in salad form! Loaded with tomatoes, corn, black beans, cilantro, avocado and crushed tortilla chips with the very best cilantro lime dressing ever! 

When you live in Los Angeles, there’s nothing better than a plate of shrimp tacos. 


close x 
That and the 74 degree weather we’re having right now. 
 
Sorry, I don’t mean to rub it in. But I did get a message from one of my readers that she was currently in -13 weather. 

So I’ll just be here, in our version of sweater weather, with my favorite shrimp tacos in salad form. 

I say salad form because we have a Thailand trip on deck in 4 weeks. 

So. Salad form. 

But don’t worry – with the crushed tortilla chips and zesty cilantro lime dressing, we won’t be missing the taco-version at all! 

SHRIMP AND AVOCADO SALAD 
YIELD: 4 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES 
This tastes just like shrimp taco in salad form! Loaded with tomatoes, corn, black beans, cilantro, avocado and crushed tortilla chips with the very best cilantro lime dressing ever! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 pound medium shrimp, peeled and deveined 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
2 teaspoons cajun seasoning 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
8 cups chopped romaine lettuce 
1 cup cherry tomatoes, halved 
1 cup canned corn kernels, drained 
1 cup canned black beans, drained and rinsed 
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro leaves 
1 avocado, halved, peeled, seeded and diced 
1 cup tortilla chips, crushed 
FOR THE CILANTRO LIME DRESSING  
1 cup loosely packed cilantro, stems removed 
1/2 cup plain Greek yogurt 
2 cloves garlic 
Juice of 1 lime 
Pinch of salt 
1/4 cup olive oil 
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar 
 

DIRECTIONS: 

To make the cilantro lime dressing, combine cilantro, Greek yogurt, garlic, lime juice and salt in the bowl of a food processor. Pulse until smooth, about 30 seconds to 1 minute With the motor running, add olive oil and vinegar in a slow stream until emulsified: set aside. 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
Place shrimp in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet. Add olive oil, garlic and cajun seasoning: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Gently toss to combine. 
Place into oven and roast just until pink, firm and cooked through, about 6-8 minutes. 
To assemble the salad, place romaine lettuce in a large bowl: top with shrimp, tomatoes, corn, black beans and cilantro. Pour the dressing on top of the salad and gently toss to combine. Stir in avocado. 
Serve immediately, garnished with tortilla chips, if desired. 

START RECIPE

SHEET PAN CAULIFLOWER NACHOS 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 11, 2018	2 COMMENTS » 
You can still get your nacho fix except with cauliflower! Except this is healthier, heartier and so stinking good. And you can make this on one single sheet pan. Easiest nachos EVER!!!  

Sheet Pan Cauliflower Nachos - You can still get your nacho fix except with cauliflower! Except this is healthier, heartier and so stinking good. And you can make this on one single sheet pan. Easiest nachos EVER!!!  

When 2018 hit, I said I would give up nachos and donuts.  


close x  
Neither resolution has really stuck.  

I just went to my favorite donut shop this morning (and it wasn’t my first visit of 2018) and ed for $1 worth of donut holes. The owner kind of loves me so he always gives me extra.  

I said, “Not too much. I’m putting on weight!”  

Then he handed over the bag of donut holes. Which was clearly like $5 worth of donut holes.  

Then I came home to this. 

Cauliflower nachos. 

I needed to make up for the donuts so I subbed out half the tortilla chips for perfectly roasted and seasoned cauliflower florets. 

So I don’t feel guilty about this at all. 

Hey, tomatoes, beans, jalapenos, onion and guacamole – that’s all good-for-you-toppings, no? 


SHEET PAN CAULIFLOWER NACHOS  
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 35 MINUTES 
You can still get your nacho fix except with cauliflower! Except this is healthier, heartier and so stinking good. And you can make this on one single sheet pan. Easiest nachos EVER!!! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 head cauliflower, cut into florets 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 teaspoon cumin 
1/4 teaspoon chili powder 
1/4 teaspoon smoked paprika 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
6 ounces tortilla chips 
1 (15-ounce) can black beans, drained and rinsed 
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese 
1 Roma tomato, diced 
1/3 cup guacamole, homemade or store-bought 
1/4 cup diced red onion 
1 jalapeno, thinly sliced 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro leaves 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
Place cauliflower florets in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet. Add olive oil, garlic, cumin, chili powder and paprika: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Gently toss to combine. Place into oven and bake for 12-14 minutes, or until tender and golden brown. 
Stir in tortilla chips in a single layer. Top with black beans and cheese. 
Place into oven and bake until heated through and the cheese melts, about 5-6 minutes. 
Serve immediately, topped with tomato, guacamole, onion, jalapeno and cilantro. 

START RECIPE
GREEN GODDESS BOWLS 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 9, 2018	5 COMMENTS » 
A healthy, glowing grain bowl that is so bright and GREEEN! Loaded with spinach, broccolini, green beans, cucumber, avocado, tarragon, mint and the best goddess dressing ever! 

Green Goddess Bowls - A healthy, glowing grain bowl that is so bright and GREEEN! Loaded with spinach, broccolini, green beans, cucumber, avocado, tarragon, mint and the best goddess dressing ever! 

After those Thai chicken buddha bowls, I’ve been on a grain bowl kick. 


close x 
Maybe it’s because I’m on a crash diet since we’re going to Thailand in 6 weeks. Or maybe it’s because I’m turning 30 next month. Or maybe it’s because of those healthy eating New Year’s resolutions. 

No wait. 

I don’t think it’s any of those. I just really love a grain bowl. 

Farro has clearly been my new obsession. That and this goddess dressing. Who knew that tarragon and mint could pack such a flavor punch? 

I also really need greens in my life. I don’t think I’ve worked off all those croissants and baguettes from Paris just yet. 

Green Goddess Bowls - A healthy, glowing grain bowl that is so bright and GREEEN! Loaded with spinach, broccolini, green beans, cucumber, avocado, tarragon, mint and the best goddess dressing ever! 

GREEN GODDESS BOWLS 
YIELD: 4 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES COOK TIME: 1 HOUR TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 20 MINUTES 
A healthy, glowing grain bowl that is so bright and GREEEN! Loaded with spinach, broccolini, green beans, cucumber, avocado, tarragon, mint and the best goddess dressing ever! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 cup farro 
1 (16-ounce) can garbanzo beans, drained and rinsed 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 1/2 teaspoons chili lime seasoning 
4 large eggs 
1 bunch broccolini 
8 ounces green beans 
1 1/2 cups baby spinach 
1/2 English cucumber, sliced 
1 avocado, halved, peeled, seeded and diced 
FOR THE DRESSING 
1 cup 2% Greek yogurt 
1 cup baby spinach 
1/4 cup fresh tarragon leaves 
1/4 cup fresh mint leaves 
2 tablespoons olive oil mayonnaise 
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice 
2 teaspoons lemon zest 
1 clove garlic 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
DIRECTIONS: 

To make the dressing, combine Greek yogurt, spinach, tarragon, mint, mayonnaise, lemon juice, lemon zest and garlic in the bowl of a food processor. Pulse until smooth, about 30 seconds to 1 minute: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Set aside. CHICKEN AND QUINOA TORTILLA SOUP 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 19, 2018	18 COMMENTS » 
Everyone’s FAVORITE chicken tortilla soup, except made healthier and heartier with added quinoa. This cozy soup is full of fiber and protein to keep you full all day long! You can also add the easiest homemade crispy BAKED tortilla strips! 

Chicken and Quinoa Tortilla Soup - Everyone's FAVORITE chicken tortilla soup, except made healthier and heartier with added quinoa. This cozy soup is full of fiber and protein to keep you full all day long! You can also add the easiest homemade crispy BAKED tortilla strips! 

So I went to a Lakers vs Pacer betball game last night. 


close x 
I didn’t  much of the game. Instead, I focused all of my attention on the chili cheese tots, carne asada nachos, and cinnamon sugar pretzel that were in my lap. 

To say that my hands were full is an understatement. 

Except, I came home feeling very, very sick. It could have been the tots. Or the nachos. Or the combination of all three. 

So as my punishment, I’ll be home the entire weekend, staying away from all sorts of stadium food, and loading up on this quinoa soup. 

It’s cozy, it’s warm, and it keeps you full the entire day so you’re not reaching for that bag of glazed donut holes you love so much. 

Except, I will load up on the tortilla strips. They’re baked, not fried, so a little bit of extra strips on top of the soup is completely warranted. 
 

CHICKEN AND QUINOA TORTILLA SOUP 
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS (12 CUPS) PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 45 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 
Everyone’s FAVORITE chicken tortilla soup, except made healthier and heartier with added quinoa. This cozy soup is full of fiber and protein to keep you full all day long! You can also add the easiest homemade crispy BAKED tortilla strips! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 onion, diced 
1 green bell pepper, diced 
2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
8 cups chicken stock 
1 (28-ounce) can diced tomatoes 
1 (15-ounce) can black beans, drained and rinsed 
1 1/2 cups corn kernels, frozen, canned or roasted 
1/2 cup quinoa 
Juice of 1 lime 
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro leaves 
FOR THE BAKED TORTILLA STRIPS 
4 corn tortillas, cut into thin strips 
1/2 teaspoon chili powder, or more, to taste 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
Spread tortilla strips in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet: season with chili powder, salt and pepper: coat with nonstick spray.. Place into oven and bake until crisp and golden, about 10-12 minutes, stirring halfway: set aside and let cool. 
Heat olive oil in a large stockpot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Season chicken with salt and pepper, to taste. Add chicken to the stockpot and cook until golden, about 2-3 minutes per side: set aside. 
Add garlic, onion and bell pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, about 3-4 minutes. 
Stir in tomato paste, chili powder, cumin and oregano until fragrant, about 1 minute. 
Stir in chicken stock, tomatoes, black beans, corn and chicken. Bring to a boil: reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, until chicken is tender and cooked through, about 20-25 minutes. Remove chicken from the stockpot and shred, using two forks. 
Stir quinoa and chicken into the stockpot. Simmer, uncovered, until quinoa is tender, about 15-20 minutes. Stir in lime juice and cilantro: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Serve immediately with baked tortilla strips, if desired.  

START RECIPE

CHICKEN AND QUINOA TORTILLA SOUP 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 19, 2018	18 COMMENTS » 
Everyone’s FAVORITE chicken tortilla soup, except made healthier and heartier with added quinoa. This cozy soup is full of fiber and protein to keep you full all day long! You can also add the easiest homemade crispy BAKED tortilla strips! 

Chicken and Quinoa Tortilla Soup - Everyone's FAVORITE chicken tortilla soup, except made healthier and heartier with added quinoa. This cozy soup is full of fiber and protein to keep you full all day long! You can also add the easiest homemade crispy BAKED tortilla strips! 

So I went to a Lakers vs Pacer betball game last night. 


close x 
I didn’t  much of the game. Instead, I focused all of my attention on the chili cheese tots, carne asada nachos, and cinnamon sugar pretzel that were in my lap. 

To say that my hands were full is an understatement. 

Except, I came home feeling very, very sick. It could have been the tots. Or the nachos. Or the combination of all three. 

So as my punishment, I’ll be home the entire weekend, staying away from all sorts of stadium food, and loading up on this quinoa soup. 

It’s cozy, it’s warm, and it keeps you full the entire day so you’re not reaching for that bag of glazed donut holes you love so much. 

Except, I will load up on the tortilla strips. They’re baked, not fried, so a little bit of extra strips on top of the soup is completely warranted. 
 

CHICKEN AND QUINOA TORTILLA SOUP 
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS (12 CUPS) PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 45 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 
Everyone’s FAVORITE chicken tortilla soup, except made healthier and heartier with added quinoa. This cozy soup is full of fiber and protein to keep you full all day long! You can also add the easiest homemade crispy BAKED tortilla strips! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 onion, diced 
1 green bell pepper, diced 
2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
8 cups chicken stock 
1 (28-ounce) can diced tomatoes 
1 (15-ounce) can black beans, drained and rinsed 
1 1/2 cups corn kernels, frozen, canned or roasted 
1/2 cup quinoa 
Juice of 1 lime 
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro leaves 
FOR THE BAKED TORTILLA STRIPS 
4 corn tortillas, cut into thin strips 
1/2 teaspoon chili powder, or more, to taste 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
Spread tortilla strips in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet: season with chili powder, salt and pepper: coat with nonstick spray.. Place into oven and bake until crisp and golden, about 10-12 minutes, stirring halfway: set aside and let cool. 
Heat olive oil in a large stockpot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Season chicken with salt and pepper, to taste. Add chicken to the stockpot and cook until golden, about 2-3 minutes per side: set aside. 
Add garlic, onion and bell pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, about 3-4 minutes. 
Stir in tomato paste, chili powder, cumin and oregano until fragrant, about 1 minute. 
Stir in chicken stock, tomatoes, black beans, corn and chicken. Bring to a boil: reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, until chicken is tender and cooked through, about 20-25 minutes. Remove chicken from the stockpot and shred, using two forks. 
Stir quinoa and chicken into the stockpot. Simmer, uncovered, until quinoa is tender, about 15-20 minutes. Stir in lime juice and cilantro: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Serve immediately with baked tortilla strips, if desired.  

START RECIPE
THAI CHICKEN BUDDHA BOWLS 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 4, 2018	26 COMMENTS » 
Healthy, hearty and nutritious bowls filled with whole grains, plenty of veggies, and a simple peanut sauce that is absolutely to die for! 

Thai Chicken Buddha Bowls - Healthy, hearty and nutritious bowls filled with whole grains, plenty of veggies, and a simple peanut sauce that is absolutely to die for! 

I’m trying to detox here post-Paris. 


close x 
I started with the green detox smoothie and now, I’m staying strong with these buddha bowls. 

Now you might , what exactly is a buddha bowl? There seems to be a million definitions but this is what I came across. 

Buddha bowls, sometimes referred to as glory or hippie bowls, are hearty, filling dishes made of various greens, raw or roasted veggies, beans and a healthy grain like quinoa or brown rice. It’s essentially a hearty bowl filled with nutrients and vitamins that aid in weight loss and/or overall health. 

So that’s exactly what we have here, guys. 

Whole grain: farro 
Protein: chicken 
Vegetables: kale, cabbage, bean sprouts, carrots 
Bonus: best peanut sauce ever 
There’s plenty of goodies for you here. Farro is a far superior whole grain with more protein and fiber (than say, brown rice) and we have a rainbow of veggies here, which basically means, the more colors we have, the more nutrients we’re getting. 


But really, the point to remember is this. 

The peanut sauce here is absolute LIFE. That is all. 

Thai Chicken Buddha Bowls - Healthy, hearty and nutritious bowls filled with whole grains, plenty of veggies, and a simple peanut sauce that is absolutely to die for! 

THAI CHICKEN BUDDHA BOWLS  
YIELD: 4 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES COOK TIME: 30 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 50 MINUTES 
Healthy, hearty and nutritious bowls filled with whole grains, plenty of veggies, and a simple peanut sauce that is absolutely to die for! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 cup farro 
1/4 cup chicken stock 
1 1/2 tablespoons sambal oelek (ground fresh chile paste) 
1 tablespoon brown sugar 
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lime juice 
1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breast, cut into 1-inch chunks 
1 tablespoon cornstarch 
1 tablespoon fish sauce 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 shallot, minced 
1 tablespoon freshly grated ginger 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
2 cups shredded kale 
1 1/2 cups shredded purple cabbage 
1 cup bean sprouts 
2 carrots, peeled and grated 
1/2 cup fresh cilantro leaves 
1/4 cup roasted peanuts 
FOR THE SPICY PEANUT SAUCE: 
3 tablespoons creamy peanut butter 
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lime juice 
1 tablespoon reduced sodium soy sauce 
2 teaspoons dark brown sugar 
2 teaspoons sambal oelek (ground fresh chile paste) 
DIRECTIONS:  

To make the spicy peanut sauce, whisk together peanut butter, lime juice, soy sauce, brown sugar, sambal oelek and 2-3 tablespoons water in a small bowl: set aside. 
Cook farro according to package instructions: set aside. 
In a small bowl, whisk together chicken stock, sambal oelek, brown sugar and lime juice: set aside. 
In a large bowl, combine chicken, cornstarch and fish sauce, tossing to coat and letting the chicken absorb the cornstarch. 
Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add chicken and cook until golden, about 3-5 minutes. Add garlic, shallot and ginger, and cook, stirring frequently, until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Stir in the chicken stock mixture until slightly thickened, about 1 minute: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Divide farro into bowls. Top with chicken, kale, cabbage, bean sprouts, carrots, cilantro and peanuts. 
Serve with spicy peanut sauce. 

START RECIPE
GREEN DETOX SMOOTHIE 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON JANUARY 1, 2018	26 COMMENTS » 
Feel your best with this healthy, nutrient-rich, bikini-ready green smoothie! Loaded with powerful superfoods like spinach and kale, celery, apple, banana and ginger! Just 136 calories per serving. 

Green Detox Smoothie - Feel your best with this healthy, nutrient-rich, bikini-ready green smoothie! Loaded with powerful superfoods like spinach and kale, celery, apple, banana and ginger! Just 136 calories per serving. 

Guys. 


close x 
I really really really need this smoothie right now. 

Because the croissants. The charcuterie boards. The steak frites. The calories are adding up. 

So as soon as we land in the US, we’ll pick up Butters and detoxify the entire weekend with this. 

With plenty of superfoods and greens, we will be set for 2018. Plus, the banana and apple adds just enough sweetness so you may not even need the honey. 

But first things first. 

I need to indulge in my last few chocolate croissants in Paris before we head home! 

Green Detox Smoothie - Feel your best with this healthy, nutrient-rich, bikini-ready green smoothie! Loaded with powerful superfoods like spinach and kale, celery, apple, banana and ginger! Just 136 calories per serving. 

GREEN DETOX SMOOTHIE 
YIELD: 4 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 10 MINUTES 
Feel your best with this healthy, nutrient-rich, bikini-ready green smoothie! Loaded with powerful superfoods like spinach and kale, celery, apple, banana and ginger! Just 136 calories per serving. 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 cups baby spinach 
2 cups baby kale 
2 ribs celery, chopped 
1 medium green apple, chopped 
1 cup frozen sliced banana 
1 cup almond milk 
1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger 
1 tablespoon chia seeds 
1 tablespoon honey 
DIRECTIONS:  

Combine spinach, kale, celery, apple, banana, almond milk, ginger, chia seeds and honey in blender until smooth. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
CINNAMON SUGAR PRETZEL BITES 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 30, 2017	4 COMMENTS » 
The absolute quickest and easiest way to make homemade pretzel bites! No rising or kneading here! And it is the best when served warm. You cannot beat that! 

Cinnamon Sugar Pretzel Bites - The absolute quickest and easiest way to make homemade pretzel bites! No rising or kneading here! And it is the best when served warm. You cannot beat that! 

Confession. 


close x 
The day we made these, I had about 20 as soon as it hit the cinnamon-sugar mixture. 

And this was all before 9:07am. 

But don’t judge me too hard. My food stylist and her assistant had just as much. 

Maybe I had more. But that’s irrelevant here. 

What is relevant here is that you need to make these asap. 

Because there’s no rising. There’s no kneading. 

There’s no use of yeast here. 

We’re using pizza dough as our base instead. 

Because guys. It’s New Year’s Eve. 


And because we really need these warm pretzel bites coated in that crisp, sweet cinnamon-sugar mixture to end 2017. 

We just do. 



CINNAMON SUGAR PRETZEL BITES 
YIELD: 12 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 45 MINUTES 
The absolute quickest and easiest way to make homemade pretzel bites! No rising or kneading here! And it is the best when served warm. You cannot beat that! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
3/4 cup granulated sugar 
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 
2 pounds pizza dough, store-bought or homemade, at room temperature 
1/3 cup baking soda 
1 large egg, beaten 
1/4 cup unsalted butter, melted 
DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. 
In a small bowl, combine sugar and cinnamon: set aside. 
Working on a lightly floured surface, cut dough into 4 equal strips. Roll each strip into a long rope, about 12-14 inches: cut into 1-inch pieces. 
Heat 6 cups water and baking soda in a medium saucepan. Bring to a boil: working in batches, drop dough pieces until slightly puffed and dimpled, about 30 seconds. Remove with a slotted spoon: drain well. 
Place dough pieces onto the prepared baking sheet, about 1/2-inch apart. Brush with egg. 
Place into oven and bake until golden brown, about 9-12 minutes. 
Working in batches, combine warm pretzel bites, butter and cinnamon-sugar mixture until evenly coated. 
Serve warm.  

START RECIPE
CREAMY BROCCOLI MAC AND CHEESE 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 28, 2017	12 COMMENTS » 
The EASIEST and CREAMIEST mac and cheese made in less than 30 min! Comfort food perfection! And it is the perfect way to sneak in those greens! 

Creamy Broccoli Mac and Cheese - The EASIEST and CREAMIEST mac and cheese made in less than 30 min! Comfort food perfection! And it is the perfect way to sneak in those greens! 

Greetings from Paris!!! 


close x 
We hopped on a flight from Indianapolis to JFK to Paris, except our luggage didn’t quite follow us all the way to France. 

So we’re drowning our sorrows in croissant after croissant after croissant. 

It really seems to be helping. 

But in the meantime, for those of you getting ready for those New Year’s resolutions, I have my favorite mac and cheese recipe to share today. 

Now when I say resolutions, I’ll be eating kale and kale starting January 1st. 

So for these last 3 days, let’s indulge and eat our hearts out with the creamiest mac and cheese ever. 

I also did you guys a favor and added broccoli. 

The broccoli is good for you – promise. 


CREAMY BROCCOLI MAC AND CHEESE  
YIELD: 4 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES 
The EASIEST and CREAMIEST mac and cheese made in less than 30 min! Comfort food perfection! And it is the perfect way to sneak in those greens! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
8 ounces medium pasta shells 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter  
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 shallot, minced 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
1 1/3 cups whole milk 
1 cup half and half 
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 cups chopped broccoli florets 
6 ounces extra-sharp cheddar cheese, grated 
DIRECTIONS: 

In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook pasta according to package instructions: drain well. 
Melt butter in a large skillet over medium high heat. Add garlic and shallot, and cook, stirring frequently, until fragrant, about 2 minutes. 
Whisk in flour until lightly browned, about 1 minute. Gradually whisk in milk, half and half and Dijon until slightly thickened, about 3-4 minutes. If the mixture is too thick, add more milk as needed: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Stir in pasta, broccoli and cheese until well combined, about 3-4 minutes. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
ROASTED CAULIFLOWER SOUP 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 25, 2017	19 COMMENTS » 
You will not believe that this is actually cauliflower soup! It is so creamy, so comforting, and packed with so much flavor with healthier ingredients! 

Roasted Cauliflower Soup - You will not believe that this is actually cauliflower soup! It is so creamy, so comforting, and packed with so much flavor with healthier ingredients! 

I hope you all had an amazing Christmas. 


close x 
We woke up to an inch or two of snowfall, giving us a beautiful white Christmas. 

I personally didn’t leave the house in 17 degree weather but I was still able to see the blanket of snow from the window. 

It’s all the same, right? 

I was honestly just too busy faceplanting myself into this cauliflower soup. 

It’s the creamiest of all soups, and it has cauliflower in it, so it has to be good for you, right? 

We’re just going to overlook this heavy cream situation but hey, we need the heavy cream (although half and half should also do the trick!). 

Roasting is key here, guys. Both the garlic and cauliflower get roasted in 30-35 minutes of heaven. 

From there, you can use an immersion blender or blender (in batches) for the best winter soup you’ll have in 2017. 


ROASTED CAULIFLOWER SOUP 
YIELD: 6 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 55 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 10 MINUTES 
You will not believe that this is actually cauliflower soup! It is so creamy, so comforting, and packed with so much flavor with healthier ingredients! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 head garlic 
4 tablespoons olive oil, divided 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
2 heads cauliflower, cut into florets 
1 onion, diced 
5 cups vegetable stock 
3 fresh thyme sprigs 
1 bay leaf 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
Cut head of garlic, about 1/4-inch, to expose tops of garlic cloves. Place garlic head, cut side up, in a sheet of foil. Drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Fold up all 4 sides of the foil and cover tightly. 
Place cauliflower florets in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet. Add 2 tablespoons olive oil: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Gently toss to combine. Place garlic onto the baking sheet. 
Place into oven and roast until cauliflower and garlic is tender and golden brown, about 30-35 minutes. Let cool before squeezing cloves from skin.  
Heat remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large stockpot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Add onion, and cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, about 3-4 minutes. Stir in vegetable stock, thyme and bay leaf. Bring to a boil: reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 5 minutes. 
Stir in cauliflower and garlic. Bring to a boil: reduce heat and simmer, covered, until cauliflower is tender and falling apart, an additional 10 minutes. Puree with an immersion blender until desired consistency is reached. 
Stir in heavy cream: season with salt and pepper, to taste. If the soup is too thick, add more vegetable stock as needed until desired consistency is reached. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
PUMPKIN SPICE BREAD WITH CREAM CHEESE FROSTING 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 22, 2017	9 COMMENTS » 
My favorite pumpkin bread yet! Extra moist, crumbly and absolutely AMAZING with the best cinnamon cream cheese frosting ever! 

Pumpkin Spice Bread with Cream Cheese Frosting - My favorite pumpkin bread yet! Extra moist, crumbly and absolutely AMAZING with the best cinnamon cream cheese frosting ever! 

Okay, guys, I made it to Indianapolis just in time for Christmas! 


close x 
We almost missed our flight with LA’s wonderful holiday traffic, and we were sitting behind a poor girl who couldn’t stop crying for 97 minutes. 

But, still. We made it! 

Fortunately, I packed a few slices of this pumpkin spice bread in foil packets. 

I basically just scraped off the cream cheese frosting and ate that first before diving completely into the crumbly, extra moist, goodness here. 

It was pure life. 

Maybe the little girl was crying because she also needed a slice of pumpkin bread. 

Sorry, girl, no sharing on this one. 

PUMPKIN SPICE BREAD WITH CREAM CHEESE FROSTING  
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 1 HOUR COOK TIME: 55 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 55 MINUTES 
My favorite pumpkin bread yet! Extra moist, crumbly and absolutely AMAZING with the best cinnamon cream cheese frosting ever! 

PRINT RECIPE
INGREDIENTS: 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger 
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 
3/4 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature 
4 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature 
3/4 cup granulated sugar 
/2 cup light brown sugar, packed 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
2 large eggs 
1 cup canned pumpkin puree 
FOR THE CREAM CHEESE FROSTING 
4 ounces cream cheese 
1 1/2 cups confectioners’ sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 cup toasted chopped pecans 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat a 9Ч5 loaf pan with nonstick spray. 
In a large bowl, combine flour, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, cloves, baking soda, baking powder and salt. 
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat butter, cream cheese and sugars on medium-high until light and fluffy, about 2-3 minutes. Beat in vanilla until well combined. Beat in eggs, one at a time, until well combined. 
With mixer on low speed, add dry ingredients and pumpkin alternately in 3 parts, beginning and ending with dry ingredients, beating just until incorporated. 
Scoop the batter evenly into the loaf pan. Place into oven and bake for 55 minutes, or until a tester inserted in center comes out clean. Remove from oven and cool completely on a wire rack before frosting. 
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese on medium speed until light and fluffy, approximately 2-3 minutes. With the mixer on low speed, gradually add confectioners’ sugar, beating just until incorporated. Add vanilla and cinnamon until well combined. Increase speed to medium high and beat until frosting is light and fluffy, approximately 1-2 minutes. 
Using a small offset spatula, spread top of bread with cream cheese frosting, garnished with pecans, if desired. 

START RECIPE
HAM AND PEAS PASTA WITH GARLIC PARMESAN CREAM SAUCE 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 21, 2017	17 COMMENTS » 
Disclosure: This post is sponsored by ALDI. As always, I only partner with brands that I love and truly believe in, allowing me to create more quick and easy recipes to get us through the week without breaking the bank. All opinions expressed are my own. 

The perfect way to use up all your leftover ham! It is amazingly creamy, comforting and kid-friendly! 

Ham and Peas Pasta with Garlic Parmesan Cream Sauce - The perfect way to use up all your leftover ham! It is amazingly creamy, comforting and kid-friendly! 

Is it just me or are the leftovers really the best part about the holidays? 


For me, it’s the ham leftovers. You serve it with your scrambled eggs for breakfast, or you make midday sandwiches to get you through that work crunch. 

And now, with ALDI’s Appleton Farms Spiral Sliced Hickory Smoked Honey Ham, you can have even more. 

Ham and Peas Pasta with Garlic Parmesan Cream Sauce - The perfect way to use up all your leftover ham! It is amazingly creamy, comforting and kid-friendly! 

This ham is budget-friendly, serves an army of at least 7-10, and is incredibly easy to serve. 

And IF you happen to have any leftovers, you can have it in pasta-form, involving my favorite garlic parmesan cream sauce with the award-winning Priano Parmesan cheese. 

So it’s basically the gold of all cream sauces. 


Ham and Peas Pasta with Garlic Parmesan Cream Sauce - The perfect way to use up all your leftover ham! It is amazingly creamy, comforting and kid-friendly! 

It really is. 

I also added some green peas. Because we need a little color in our dish. 

Not only that, it takes just minutes to whip up with your leftover ham! 

HAM AND PEAS PASTA WITH GARLIC PARMESAN CREAM SAUCE  
YIELD: 4 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES
The perfect way to use up all your leftover ham! It is amazingly creamy, comforting and kid-friendly! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
8 ounces SimplyNature Organic Spaghetti 
1/4 cup Countryside Creamery unsalted butter 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons Baker’s Corner all-purpose flour 
21 cup Chef’s Cupboard chicken broth, or more, as needed 
21 teaspoon Stonemill dried thyme 
21/2 teaspoon Stonemill dried basil 
21/2 cup Countryside Creamery half and half 
21/2 cup freshly grated Priano Parmesan 
2Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
2cups chopped Appleton Farms Spiral Sliced Hickory Smoked Honey Ham 
1 cup Season’s Choice Frozen Sweet Peas 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley leaves 
DIRECTIONS: 

In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook pasta according to package instructions: drain well. 
To make the garlic parmesan cream sauce, melt butter in the skillet skillet over medium heat. Add garlic, and cook, stirring frequently, until fragrant, about 1-2 minutes. Whisk in flour until lightly browned, about 1 minute. 
Gradually whisk in chicken broth, thyme and basil. Cook, whisking constantly, until incorporated, about 1-2 minutes. Stir in half and half and Parmesan until slightly thickened, about 1-2 minutes. If the mixture is too thick, add more half and half as needed: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Stir in spaghetti, ham and peas, and gently toss to combine. 
Serve immediately, garnished with parsley, if desired. 

START RECIPE
APPLE CIDER DONUTS 

POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 19, 2017	13 COMMENTS » 
There’s nothing truly better than biting into a warm, fresh donut coated in cinnamon sugar. It melts in your mouth with every bite! 

Apple Cider Donuts - There's nothing truly better than biting into a warm, fresh donut coated in cinnamon sugar. It melts in your mouth with every bite! 

So are you a eat-the-entire-donut person or more of a donut-hole person? 


Because I’m more of the latter. 

I mean, there’s less guilt eating the donut holes. 

Apple Cider Donuts - There's nothing truly better than biting into a warm, fresh donut coated in cinnamon sugar. It melts in your mouth with every bite! 
 
Even though I think I probably have more donut volume in donut hole form than the actual donuts. 

But it doesn’t matter here. 

Whole donuts. Or donut holes. 

Apple Cider Donuts - There's nothing truly better than biting into a warm, fresh donut coated in cinnamon sugar. It melts in your mouth with every bite! 

It’s all the same. 

They get deep fried and coated/smothered/tossed in cinnamon sugar. 


So whole donuts vs. donut holes. It doesn’t matter. Because we’ll still eat them all. 

APPLE CIDER DONUTS  
YIELD: 12 DONUTS PREP TIME: 1 HOUR 50 MINUTES COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 2 HOURS  
There’s nothing truly better than biting into a warm, fresh donut coated in cinnamon sugar. It melts in your mouth with every bite! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
3 cups apple cider 
1 cup granulated sugar 
4 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon, divided 
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
2/3 cup light brown sugar, packed 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda  
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
6 tablespoons butter, melted and cooled 
2 large eggs, lightly beaten 
2 cups vegetable oil 
DIRECTIONS: 

Heat apple cider in a large saucepan over medium high heat until reduced to 1 cup, about 15-20 minutes: place into the refrigerator until completely cool, about 30 minutes. 
In a small bowl, combine sugar and 1 tablespoon cinnamon: set aside. 
In a large bowl, combine flour, sugar, baking powder, salt, baking soda, nutmeg and remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon. 
In a large glass measuring cup or another bowl, whisk together butter, eggs and apple cider. 
Pour mixture over dry ingredients and stir using a rubber spatula just until moist: cover and place into the refrigerator until chilled, about 1 hour. Divide dough in half. 
Working on a lightly floured surface, roll dough into 1/2-inch thick rounds: cut out rounds with a 2 1/2-inch cutter. 
Heat vegetable oil in a large stockpot or Dutch oven over medium high heat until a deep-fry thermometer registers 375 degrees F. 
Working in batches, add donuts to the Dutch oven and cook until evenly golden and crispy, 1 minute per side. Transfer to a paper towel-lined plate for 30 seconds: then roll warm donuts in cinnamon sugar mixture to coat. 
Serve warm. 

START RECIPE
SLOW COOKER LOADED POTATO SOUP 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 16, 2017	35 COMMENTS » 
Everyone’s favorite comfort food soup in crockpot form! Hands-off and incredibly easy with 15 min prep work! That’s it! 

Slow Cooker Loaded Potato Soup - Everyone's favorite comfort food soup in crockpot form! Hands-off and incredibly easy with 15 min prep work! That's it! 

Can I just be the first one to admit how relieved I am it is sweater weather right now? 


close x 
Because I just had my fair share of this loaded baked potato soup. 

Which also means I had my fair share of garnishes. 

AKA. Extra bacon. Cheese. And green onions. 

Wait. Green onions aren’t that bad for you. 

So I think we’re just fine. 

We’re also fine because we are making this in the slow cooker. 

All you have to do is dump in your ingredients – then you can let it do its thing for 7-8 hours. 

There’s no babysitting here. 

Your only job is to have your garnishes ready for serving. 


SLOW COOKER LOADED POTATO SOUP 
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 8 HOURS 30 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 8 HOURS 45 MINUTES 
Everyone’s favorite comfort food soup in crockpot form! Hands-off and incredibly easy with 15 min prep work! That’s it! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
4 slices bacon, diced 
2 pounds russet potatoes, peeled and chopped 
3 cups chicken stock 
1/2 onion, chopped 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
2 sprigs fresh thyme 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter 
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese 
2/3 cup sour cream 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
DIRECTIONS:  


Heat a large skillet over medium high heat. Add bacon and cook until brown and crispy, about 6-8 minutes. Transfer to a paper towel-lined plate.  
Place potatoes into a 4-qt slow cooker. Stir in chicken stock, onion, garlic, thyme, butter and bacon until well combined. 
Cover and cook on low heat for 7-8 hours or high heat for 3-4 hours, or until potatoes are tender. 
Using a potato masher, mash potatoes until desired consistency is reached. Stir in cheese, sour cream and heavy cream until smooth: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Cover and cook on low heat until warmed through, stirring occasionally, about 15-20 minutes. If the mixture is too thick, add more chicken stock as needed until desired consistency is reached. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
CRANBERRY APPLE SANGRIA 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 14, 2017	8 COMMENTS » 
The must have spiced holiday cocktail! With cranberries, apples, oranges, cinnamon and cloves! You can make this ahead of time!  

Cranberry Apple Sangria - The must have spiced holiday cocktail! With cranberries, apples, oranges, cinnamon and cloves! You can make this ahead of time!  

I think I found my favorite holiday cocktail of 2017. 


close x 
It’s the perfect spiced cocktail with fresh cranberries, apples, oranges, rosemary, cinnamon, star anise and whole cloves. 

And you can make this ahead of time and let it chill right in the fridge. When ready to serve, pop open that bottle of wine and pour over ice. 

If you want a non-alcoholic version, you can substitute a lemon-lime soda (such as 7-Up or Sprite) for the pinot grigio. 

Don’t worry. I got you, guys. 

Just because you can’t have wine doesn’t mean you can’t indulge in this festive cocktail for both kids and grown-ups! 

CRANBERRY APPLE SANGRIA  
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 4 HOURS 45 MINUTES COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 4 HOURS 50 MINUTES 
The must have spiced holiday cocktail! With cranberries, apples, oranges, cinnamon and cloves! You can make this ahead of time! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
3 cups cranberry apple juice cocktail, divided 
1/4 cup sugar 
2 oranges, thinly sliced 
1/2 cup halved fresh cranberries 
2 (5-inch) sprigs fresh rosemary 
2 (3-inch) cinnamon sticks 
3 star anise pods 
8 whole cloves 
2 cups sliced small apples 
1 (750-mml) bottle pinot grigio, chilled 
DIRECTIONS: 

Combine 2 cups cranberry apple juice and sugar in a medium saucepan over medium heat, stirring until the sugar has dissolved, about 4 minutes. Remove from heat. 
Stir in oranges, cranberries, rosemary, cinnamon sticks, star anise and cloves. Let stand 30 minutes: remove and discard rosemary and cloves. 
In a large pitcher, whisk together orange mixture, apples and remaining 1 cup cranberry apple juice. 
Let chill in refrigerator for at least 4 hours. 
Serve over ice with pinot grigio. 

START RECIPE
THE PERFECT HOLIDAY CHEESE BOARD 

POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 12, 2017	13 COMMENTS » 
Learn how to assemble the most beautiful cheese and charcuterie board ever for a crowd! Only 10 min prep. So easy, right? 

The Perfect Holiday Cheese Board - Learn how to assemble the most beautiful cheese and charcuterie board ever for a crowd! Only 10 min prep. So easy, right? 

You know I love making a cheese board. 


close x 
Even if it’s a simple, sad-looking cheese board with a few cucumbers and 3 slices of leftover cheese, I’m in. 

But I really love making a cheese board for the holidays. 

Maybe it’s because I get to be festive and cute with all the garnishes. 

Or maybe it’s because I don’t have to cook anything at all. 

That’s probably it. There’s just no cooking here. 

It’s a simple, yet equally gorgeous, assembly of cheeses, fruits, and meats. 

Not to mention, you’ll be getting some major impressed brownie points from your mother-in-law. 

See, it’s a win-win across all angles. 


THE PERFECT HOLIDAY CHEESE BOARD 
YIELD: 12 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 10 MINUTES 
Learn how to assemble the most beautiful cheese and charcuterie board ever for a crowd! Only 10 min prep. So easy, right? 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
8 ounces gorgonzola cheese 
8 ounces brie, thinly sliced 
8 ounces Colby-Jack cheese, thinly sliced 
8 ounces Pepper Jack cheese, thinly sliced 
6 ounces sliced prosciutto 
6 ounces sopressata, thinly sliced 
1 cup strawberries, halved 
1/2 cup raspberries 
1/3 cup blueberries 
2 clementines, peeled and segmented 
4 figs, halved 
4 sprigs rosemary 
DIRECTIONS:  
Arrange cheeses, prosciutto, sopressata, strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, clementines and figs on platter or wooden cheese board. Garnish with rosemary, if desired.  

START RECIPE
MAC AND CHEESE CUPS 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 10, 2017	33 COMMENTS » 
Disclosure: This post is sponsored by America’s Dairy Farm Families and Importers, in partnership with the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy. As always, I only partner with brands that I love and truly believe in, allowing me to create more quick and easy recipes to get us through the week without breaking the bank. All opinions expressed are my own. 

Macaroni and cheese baked to perfection in muffin tins! Great for holidays and lunch boxes – it’s portable and makes for easy serving! 

Mac and Cheese Cups - Macaroni and cheese baked to perfection in muffin tins! Great for holidays and lunch boxes - it's portable and makes for easy serving! 


I think this may be the only way to have mac and cheese. 


In cup form, of course. 

It’s great for serving, for a lunch box, and most importantly, they are best served during the holidays. 

Simply start with a traditional macaroni and cheese recipe, add mixture to muffin tins, top with crumb topping, and then bake until golden brown. 

You can really use any mac and cheese recipe of your choice. Either way, these bad boys get baked in muffin tins, so you can basically have yourself a mac and cheese cupcake. 

It’s an absolute crowd-pleaser using locally-sourced milk, one of the main dairy ingredients here. And it’s most likely from a farm near your neighborhood, traveling an average of only 300 miles from farm to grocery store. 

Guys, 300 miles. That’s it. 

And believe it or not, 97% of dairy farms are family-owned and operated, like the farm I just visited in Merced! 

To top it off, our milk comes from the dairy industry that works so hard to benefit thousands of local communities, providing jobs and nutrient-rich foods. 

That’s a win-win for all, no? 

Mac and Cheese Cups - Macaroni and cheese baked to perfection in muffin tins! Great for holidays and lunch boxes - it's portable and makes for easy serving! 


If you’re interested in learning more about where your dairy comes from, visit UndeniablyDairy.org! 
MAC AND CHEESE CUPS  
YIELD: 12 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 40 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 55 MINUTES 
Macaroni and cheese baked to perfection in muffin tins! Great for holidays and lunch boxes – it’s portable and makes for easy serving! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 cups elbows pasta 
2 tablespoons Panko 
2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan 
1 1/2 teaspoons olive oil 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
3cloves garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
1 cup milk 
2 cups shredded sharp cheddar cheese 
1 large egg, beaten 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh chives 
DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a 12-cup standard muffin tin with paper liners or coat with nonstick spray: set aside. 
In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook pasta according to package instructions: drain well. 
To make the topping, combine Panko, Parmesan and olive oil: set aside. 
Melt butter in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add garlic, and cook, stirring frequently, until fragrant, about 1-2 minutes. 
Whisk in flour until lightly browned, about 1 minute. Gradually whisk in milk. Bring to a boil: reduce heat and simmer, whisking constantly, until thickened, about 3-5 minutes. Remove from heat. 
Stir in cheese until melted, about 2-3 minutes. Stir in egg and pasta, and gently toss to combine: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Scoop the pasta mixture evenly into the muffin tray. Sprinkle with reserved topping. Place into oven and bake for 18-20 minutes, or until golden brown. 
Serve immediately, garnished with chives, if desired. 

START RECIPE
GARLIC SHRIMP AND AVOCADO CROSTINI 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 8, 2017	6 COMMENTS » 
Disclosure: This post is sponsored by the National Fisheries Institute Shrimp Council. As always, I only partner with brands that I love and truly believe in, allowing me to create more quick and easy recipes to get us through the week without breaking the bank. All opinions expressed are my own. 

The quickest and easiest appetizer you can whip up that is sure to be a crowd-pleaser! Everyone will beg for seconds! 

  Garlic Shrimp and Avocado Crostini - The quickest and easiest appetizer you can whip up that is sure to be a crowd-pleaser! Everyone will beg for seconds! 

I’m not sure about you guys but I’m going crazy with Christmas shopping right now. 

close x 

You have to get that perfect gift for your niece, your mom, your father-in-law, that distant cousin you never really see, and your favorite Grandma who loves the Dodgers. 

Oh, and apparently all your friends want an Instant Pot but they’re out of stock. 

Garlic Shrimp and Avocado Crostini - The quickest and easiest appetizer you can whip up that is sure to be a crowd-pleaser! Everyone will beg for seconds! 

It’s a lot. But, yet, I find true solace in this. The butteriest, garlickiest shrimp crostini. 

It’s quick and easy so you can whip this up in seconds to bring to a last-minute holiday party, or when you don’t have the perfect holiday gift for everyone. 


Plus, these bites can be made ahead of time and they don’t require oven space for assembly – simply toast your baguette ahead of time and prepare the shrimp right before serving! 

 Garlic Shrimp and Avocado Crostini - The quickest and easiest appetizer you can whip up that is sure to be a crowd-pleaser! Everyone will beg for seconds! 

You can follow Eat Shrimp on Facebook and Pinterest for more shrimp recipe inspiration! 

GARLIC SHRIMP AND AVOCADO CROSTINI 
YIELD: 12 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 25 MINUTES
The quickest and easiest appetizer you can whip up that is sure to be a crowd-pleaser! Everyone will beg for seconds! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 French baguette, ends trimmed and cut into 1/3-inch slices 
1/4 cup unsalted butter 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 shallot, diced 
1 pound medium shrimp, peeled and deveined 
2 cups cherry tomatoes, halved 
1 avocado, halved, peeled, seeded and diced 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley leaves 
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice, or more, to taste 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
Place baguette slices in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet. Place into oven and bake until lightly toasted, about 8 minutes: set aside. 
Melt butter in a large skillet over medium high heat. Add garlic and shallot, and cook, stirring frequently, until fragrant, about 2 minutes. 
Add shrimp and cook, stirring occasionally, until pink, about 2-3 minutes. 
Stir in tomatoes, avocado, parsley and lemon juice: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Top each baguette slice with shrimp mixture. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
NO KNEAD ROSEMARY BREAD 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 5, 2017	54 COMMENTS » 
A basic, FOOLPROOF homemade bread recipe here! Anyone can make this! I PROMISE!!!! And the bread comes out just perfect! 

No Knead Rosemary Bread - A basic, FOOLPROOF homemade bread recipe here! Anyone can make this! I PROMISE!!!! And the bread comes out just perfect! 

Bread-making has been my jam lately. 


I mean. Sometimes it takes hours and hours. 

This one here takes over 24 hours. 
 
But, guys. It’s only 15 minutes of prep work. If that, even. 

Then you just let the yeast do its thing.  

And this here is a no-knead recipe. Which basically means less work for you guys. 

It’s so easy, it’s ridiculous. ANYONE can make it. I mean it. Anyone. 

Serve with butter, or use to dunk into my favorite tomato basil soup. 

No Knead Rosemary Bread - A basic, FOOLPROOF homemade bread recipe here! Anyone can make this! I PROMISE!!!! And the bread comes out just perfect! 

 


NO KNEAD ROSEMARY BREAD 
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 24 HOURS 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 40 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 24 HOURS 55 MINUTES 
A basic, FOOLPROOF homemade bread recipe here! Anyone can make this! I PROMISE!!!! And the bread comes out just perfect! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
3 cups all-purpose flour 
3 large garlic cloves, minced 
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh rosemary, or more, to taste 
1 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt 
3/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon active rapid rise yeast 
1 1/2 cups water, at room temperature 
2 tablespoons cornmeal 
DIRECTIONS: 

In a large bowl, combine flour, garlic, rosemary, salt, pepper and yeast. 
Using a wooden spoon or your hand, add water and mix until a wet, sticky dough forms, about 30 seconds. 
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap and let stand at room temperature until surface is dotted with bubbles, about 18 to 24 hours. 
Lightly oil a 10-inch cast iron skillet or coat with nonstick spray: sprinkle with cornmeal. 
Working on a lightly floured surface, gently shape dough into a round. 
Place dough into the prepared skillet. Cover with a clean dishtowel and let stand at room temperature until dough has doubled in size and does not readily spring back when poked with a finger, about 2 hours. 
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Place into oven and bake until golden brown, about 30-40 minutes. 
Serve warm. 

START RECIPE
HOMEMADE CRESCENT ROLLS 


POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON DECEMBER 1, 2017	34 COMMENTS » 
No more store-bought crescent rolls! These can be made ahead of time, refrigerated or frozen. It’s so easy, buttery and fluffy! 

Homemade Crescent Rolls - No more store-bought crescent rolls! These can be made ahead of time, refrigerated or frozen. It's so easy, buttery and fluffy! 

So for years, well, my entire life actually, I was using the crescent rolls that come in those refrigerated tubes. 


Always, always, always. 

But, I am frequently ed if I have a homemade recipe. 

I honestly didn’t even know you could make a homemade version. 
 
That is, until now. 

And after extensive recipe testing with my team, and many failed yet consumed batches of crescent rolls, I think we were able to finally perfect this. 

After this, we’ll never be using those refrigerated tubes ever again. 

Because you can make this ahead of time, refrigerate or freeze as needed. 

So now you really have no excuse! 

HOMEMADE CRESCENT ROLLS  
YIELD: 24 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 3 HOURS COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 3 HOURS 15 MINUTES 
No more store-bought crescent rolls! These can be made ahead of time, refrigerated or frozen. It’s so easy, buttery and fluffy! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 1/4 cups warm whole milk (105-110 degrees F) 
1/2 cup unsalted butter, melted 
2 tablespoons honey 
2 1/4 teaspoons active dry yeast 
4 cups all-purpose flour, divided 
1 large egg, beaten 
2 teaspoons kosher salt 
DIRECTIONS: 

In the bowl of an electric mixer, combine milk, butter, honey and yeast: let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. 
Add 2 cups flour, egg and salt. Using the dough hook, beat on low speed for 1-2 minutes. Add remaining flour, 1/2 cup at a time, until a soft, smooth ball of dough is formed. The dough should feel elastic and slightly tacky to the touch. Increase speed to medium-high and beat for 3 minutes. 
Lightly oil a large bowl or coat with nonstick spray: place dough in bowl, turning to coat. Cover with a clean dishtowel and let stand in a warm spot until dough has doubled in size, about 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
Gently deflate dough by punching down. Working on a lightly floured surface, divide in half. Roll into 12-inch rounds: cut into 12 wedges. Roll up wedges, starting from the wide end, to form a crescent shape. 
Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. Place rolls, point sides down, onto the prepared baking sheet. Cover with a clean dishtowel and let stand in a warm spot until dough has doubled in size, about 30-45 minutes. 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Brush tops with butter. Place into oven and bake until golden brown, about 12-14 minutes. 
Serve warm. 

START RECIPE
SLOW COOKER TOMATO BASIL SOUP 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON NOVEMBER 28, 2017	34 COMMENTS » 
Simply add all your ingredients into a crockpot. So creamy, comforting and EASY! Served with parmesan cheddar croutons!!!  

Slow Cooker Tomato Basil Soup - Simply add all your ingredients into a crockpot. So creamy, comforting and EASY! Served with parmesan cheddar croutons!!!  

We’ve been a sick household for days.  


close x  
Ben is sick. I’m sick. And I may have heard Butters sneezing earlier.  

It may have been the Indiana cold.  

Us Californians are wimps when it comes to 28 degree weather.  

So now. Well, now, we’re a tomato soup household.  

And because we’re all sick, no one has the energy to cook.  

That’s why we threw everything into the crockpot.  

Ben helped and made the croutons, with extra Parmesan cheese for me. 

SLOW COOKER TOMATO BASIL SOUP   
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 8 HOURS TOTAL TIME: 8 HOURS 15 MINUTES  
Simply add all your ingredients into a crockpot. So creamy, comforting and EASY! Served with parmesan cheddar croutons!!!  

PRINT RECIPE  
INGREDIENTS:  
2 (28-ounce) cans whole peeled plum tomatoes with basil 
1 (15-ounce) can tomato sauce 
1 1/2 cups vegetable broth 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 onion, diced 
1 red bell pepper, diced 
2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 1/2 teaspoons dried oregano 
1 teaspoon sugar 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoons freshly ground pepper 
1/3 cup heavy cream 
1/3 cup chopped fresh basil 
FOR THE PARMESAN CHEDDAR CROUTONS 
4 cups (1-inch) French bread cubes 
1 cup shredded extra-sharp cheddar cheese 
1/4 cup freshly grated Parmesan 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
To make the parmesan cheddar croutons, spread bread cubes in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet: sprinkle with cheeses. Place into oven and bake until crisp and golden, about 10-12 minutes, stirring halfway: set aside and let cool. 
Place tomatoes into a 6-qt slow cooker. Stir in tomato sauce, vegetable broth, garlic, onion, bell pepper, tomato paste, oregano, sugar, salt and pepper until well combined. Crush the tomatoes into chunks using the back of a spoon. 
Cover and cook on low heat for 7-8 hours or high heat for 3-4 hours. 
Puree with an immersion blender until desired consistency is reached. Stir in heavy cream and basil: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Serve immediately with parmesan cheddar croutons. 

START RECIPE
GARLIC PARMESAN CAULIFLOWER STEAKS 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON NOVEMBER 26, 2017	9 COMMENTS » 
Your new go-to side dish! Roasted cauliflower is the best/easiest way to go! So crisp-tender and perfectly seasoned! 

Garlic Parmesan Cauliflower Steaks - Your new go-to side dish! Roasted cauliflower is the best/easiest way to go! So crisp-tender and perfectly seasoned! 

? I came to really enjoy cauliflower about 2 years ago. 


It’s weird, I know. 

Cauliflower was just never incorporated into our very Korean diet. 

Broccoli, yes. Cauliflower, no. 

I’m also pretty sure my mom had no idea what cauliflower was. 

Yet now, I can’t be without it. I just can’t. 

I just made a mashed version for Thanksgiving, which was probably the best mashed potatoes I have ever had in my entire life. 

And I have a roasted cauliflower soup coming next week. 

But for now, I’m having cauliflower steak every single day. 


ONLY cauliflower steak. Maybe a donut for dessert. 

But hey, it’s just that good. 

The cauliflower. Not the donut. 

GARLIC PARMESAN CAULIFLOWER STEAKS  
YIELD: 4 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 40 MINUTES 
Your new go-to side dish! Roasted cauliflower is the best/easiest way to go! So crisp-tender and perfectly seasoned! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
3 tablespoons olive oil  
4 cloves garlic, minced  
1 teaspoon dried oregano  
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme  
1/2 teaspoon dried rosemary  
1/2 teaspoon dried parsley  
2heads cauliflower, cut into 1/2-inch slices  
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste  
1/4 cup freshly grated Parmesan  
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat with nonstick spray. 
In a small bowl, combine olive oil, garlic, oregano, thyme, rosemary and parsley. 
Place cauliflower slices in a single layer onto the prepared baking sheet. Brush each slice with the olive oil mixture on both sides: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Place into oven and bake until golden brown, about 20-25 minutes, flipping halfway. 
Serve immediately, sprinkled with Parmesan.  

START RECIPE
SHEET PAN HERB ROASTED TURKEY AND CRANBERRY PECAN STUFFING 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON NOVEMBER 20, 2017	18 COMMENTS » 
The easiest Thanksgiving holiday meal! A sheet pan turkey dinner! So easy with less dishes! 

Sheet Pan Herb Roasted Turkey and Cranberry Pecan Stuffing - The easiest Thanksgiving holiday meal! A sheet pan turkey dinner! So easy with less dishes! 

Ummmm, a sheet pan turkey dinner? YES, PLEASE! 


close x 
So for those of you who have small get-togethers for the holidays, or who don’t want to cook an entire turkey, this is exactly what you need.

A cornbread stuffing mix with a 2-pound herb-roasted turkey RIGHT. ON. TOP. 

You save on dishwashing, time and effort. 

I, however, will probably be stuffing my face with a 20-lb turkey in Indiana for the holidays, with my sidekick Butters. 

But I’ll be sure to make this sheet pan meal during the week once I return to LA. It truly works as a weeknight dinner, and you can even swap out the turkey for chicken breasts! 

SHEET PAN HERB ROASTED TURKEY AND CRANBERRY PECAN STUFFING  
YIELD: 4 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES COOK TIME: 1 HOUR TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 20 MINUTES 
The easiest Thanksgiving holiday meal! A sheet pan turkey dinner! So easy with less dishes! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS:
5 cups French bread cubes  
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 onion, diced 
2 stalks celery, diced 
1/3 cup dry white wine 
1/4 cup dried sweetened cranberries 
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley leaves 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh sage leaves 
2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme leaves 
2 1/2 cups seasoned cornbread stuffing mix 
1/2 cup pecans, chopped 
1 1/2 cups chicken stock 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
FOR THE TURKEY 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme leaves 
1 teaspoon lemon zest 
1 (2-pound) boneless, skin-on turkey breast 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly oil a 9 x 13 baking dish or coat with nonstick spray.   
Spread bread cubes in a single layer on a baking sheet. Place into oven and bake until crisp and golden, about 10-12 minutes: set aside. 
Melt butter in a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add garlic, onion and celery. Cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, about 3-4 minutes.  
Stir in wine and cook, stirring occasionally, until just reduced, about 2 minutes. Stir in cranberries, parsley, sage and thyme. Remove from heat and let stand to soften cranberries, about 5 minutes. 
Stir in bread, cornbread stuffing mix and pecans: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Stir in chicken stock until absorbed and well combined.* 
Spread bread mixture into the prepared baking dish. 
In a small bowl, combine butter, garlic, thyme and lemon zest.  
Using your fingers, carefully loosen the skin from the breast meat, spreading the butter mixture under the skin. Secure skin over the butter with wooden picks: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Place turkey on top of the bread mixture. Place into oven and bake until the turkey is completely cooked through, reaching an internal temperature of 160 degrees F, about 40-45 minutes. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
SLOW COOKER CAULIFLOWER MASHED POTATOES 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON NOVEMBER 17, 2017	31 COMMENTS »   
Disclosure: This post is sponsored by the Crock-Pot® brand. As always, I only partner with brands that I love and truly believe in, allowing me to create more quick and easy recipes to get us through the week without breaking the bank. All opinions expressed are my own.  

BEST EVER mashed potatoes made right in your crockpot! Save on oven space! You won’t even taste the cauliflower! 

Slow Cooker Cauliflower Mashed Potatoes - BEST EVER mashed potatoes made right in your crockpot! Save on oven space! You won't even taste the cauliflower! 

If you’re in need of the perfect mashed potatoes this holiday season, look no further. 

close x 

Because this recipe is absolutely perfect. 

For starters, you make it in a Crock-Pot® 6-Quart Programmable Cook & Carry™ Slow Cooker. 

Which means this travels very well. With hinged locking lids and carrying handles, there’s no leaking and no repacking here. 

Simply cook your dish for 6-7 hours, unplug, and travel to your desired destination. It will keep perfectly. 

And guys. There’s more than potatoes here. We have cauliflower sneaked in too. Except you won’t taste it. At all. 


People will think it’s just the best mashed potatoes ever, just with half the calories. 

So we won’t need our stretchy pants here. 

I mean, maybe we do. Because I’ll have 5 different kinds of pies at my Thanksgiving this year. 

SLOW COOKER CAULIFLOWER MASHED POTATOES  
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES COOK TIME: 7 HOURS TOTAL TIME: 7 HOURS 20 MINUTES
BEST EVER mashed potatoes made right in your crockpot! Save on oven space! You won’t even taste the cauliflower! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
2 1/2 pounds Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and cubed 
1 shallot, minced 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 head cauliflower, cut into small florets 
1 cup vegetable stock 
1 (5.2 ounce) package garlic herb cheese, crumbled 
1/2 cup half and half 
1/4 cup chopped fresh chives 
DIRECTIONS: 

Lightly coat the inside of a 4-qt slow cooker with nonstick spray. Place potatoes, shallot, garlic and butter into the slow cooker: season with salt and pepper, to taste.  Without stirring, top with cauliflower and vegetable stock. 
Cover and cook on low heat for 6-7 hours, or until tender. 
Remove potato mixture from the slow cooker and drain excess liquid before returning to the pot. Stir in garlic herb cheese and half and half. 
Using an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, blend potatoes and cauliflower until light and fluffy, about 2-3 minutes. If the mixture is too thick, add more half and half as needed until desired consistency is reached. Stir in chives: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Serve immediately.* 


START RECIPE
GARLIC PARMESAN DINNER ROLLS 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON NOVEMBER 15, 2017	33 COMMENTS » 
CLASSIC dinner rolls, except made even BETTER with garlic and grated Parmesan cheese! Soft, tender, warm, and buttery!!! 

Garlic Parmesan Dinner Rolls - CLASSIC dinner rolls, except made even BETTER with garlic and grated Parmesan cheese! Soft, tender, warm, and buttery!!! 

I admit. Homemade bread takes time. 


It takes patience. It takes precise measurements and following directions to an absolute T. 
 
But most importantly, it just takes time. 

It’s not very difficult at all because the yeast does all the work for you. But you do have to wait around for the dough to rise twice. 

That’s where I do a few loads of laundry or Instagram Butters’ turkey legging. 

Either way, you have to buy some time. 

But. I promise you. In the end, it is so worth it. 

It’s like making homemade pasta. It takes effort but there’s nothing else like it. 

I had to recipe test this 2-3 times due to a burnt situation but no one was complaining. 

We just had this dinner for 1 week straight. 


GARLIC PARMESAN DINNER ROLLS  
YIELD: 15 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 3 HOURS COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 3 HOURS 20 MINUTES 
CLASSIC dinner rolls, except made even BETTER with garlic and grated Parmesan cheese! Soft, tender, warm, and buttery!!! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1/2 cup warm whole milk (105-110 degrees F) 
1/2 cup warm water (105-110 degrees F) 
2 1/4 teaspoons active dry yeast 
3 tablespoons sugar, divided 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/3 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature 
3/4 cup freshly grated Parmesan, divided 
1 large egg 
3 3/4 cups all-purpose flour, divided 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley leaves 
DIRECTIONS: 

Combine milk, water, yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar and salt in a small bowl: let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. 
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with paddle attachment, beat butter, 1/2 cup Parmesan and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 2-3 minutes. Beat in egg until well combined. Beat in yeast mixture and 2 1/2 cups flour until a smooth batter forms. 
Using the dough hook, gradually add remaining 1 – 1 1/4 cups flour, 1/2 cup at a time, until a soft, smooth ball of dough is formed. The dough should feel elastic and slightly tacky to the touch. Increase speed to medium-high and beat for 3 minutes. 
Lightly oil a large bowl or coat with nonstick spray: place dough in bowl, turning to coat. Cover with a clean dishtowel and let stand in a warm spot until dough has doubled in size, about 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
Gently deflate dough by punching down. Roll into a 15-inch rope: cut into 15 1-inch pieces, pressing each piece into a disk, then shaping into a ball. 
Lightly oil a 9Ч13 baking dish or coat with nonstick spray. Place dough balls into the prepared baking dish: brush tops with butter and sprinkle with garlic. Cover with a clean dishtowel and let stand in a warm spot until dough has doubled in size, about 30-45 minutes. 
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Sprinkle dough with remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan. Place into oven and bake until golden brown, about 18-22 minutes. 
Serve warm, garnished with parsley, if desired.  

START RECIPE
APPLE WALNUT SAUSAGE STUFFING 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON NOVEMBER 13, 2017	20 COMMENTS » 
Make your stuffing ahead of time! It’s easy, quick, and flavorful with crumbled sausage, fresh herbs, and apples! SO GOOD!!! 

Apple Walnut Sausage Stuffing - Make your stuffing ahead of time! It's easy, quick, and flavorful with crumbled sausage, fresh herbs, and apples! SO GOOD!!! 

There’s a ton of stuffing recipes out there. 


I have seen a lot of them using chorizo, some using buffalo cheddar bear bread and even a pumpkin puree one! 

But to me. Stuffing is a classic. So let’s just keep it simple. 

I used fresh herbs, a combination of my favorite breads – sourdough, multigrain, whole wheat and pumpernickel – crumbled sausage, and tart apples. 

It’s a blend of savory and sweet, moist on the inside with just enough crunch and crispness on the top. 

You can also stuff it in the bird, or bake it separately. 

Just note that you can make this 1 day ahead of time! 

Also, calories don’t count during Thanksgiving. That’s why we use almost a whole stick of butter here. 

APPLE WALNUT SAUSAGE STUFFING  
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 1 HOUR 5 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 20 MINUTES 
Make your stuffing ahead of time! It’s easy, quick, and flavorful with crumbled sausage, fresh herbs, and apples! SO GOOD!!! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
10 cups (1-inch) bread cubes* 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 pound mild ground pork sausage 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 onion, diced 
1 1/2 cups sliced celery 
2 Braeburn apples, chopped 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh sage 
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh thyme leaves 
1 cup toasted walnuts 
1/2 cup finely chopped fresh parsley 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
2 1/2 cups chicken stock 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly oil a 9 x 13 baking dish or coat with nonstick spray. 
Spread bread cubes in a single layer on a baking sheet. Place into oven and bake until crisp and golden, about 10-12 minutes: set aside. 
Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add sausage and cook until browned,  about 3-5 minutes, making sure to crumble the sausage as it cooks: set aside. 
Melt butter in the skillet. Add garlic, onion and celery, and cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, about 4-5 minutes. Stir in apples, sage and thyme until fragrant, about 1 minute. 
In a large bowl, combine bread, sausage, apple mixture, walnuts and parsley: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Stir in chicken stock until absorbed and well combined.* 
Spread bread mixture into the prepared baking dish. Place into oven and bake until top is browned, about 45 minutes. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
HOW TO MAKE A MEAT AND CHEESE BOARD 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON NOVEMBER 10, 2017	15 COMMENTS »
Disclosure: This post is sponsored by ALDI. As always, I only partner with brands that I love and truly believe in, allowing me to create more quick and easy recipes to get us through the week without breaking the bank. All opinions expressed are my own.

All you need to know to make an awesome cheese and charcuterie board! It’s simple, easy and so impressive for a crowd!

How to Make a Meat and Cheese Board - All you need to know to make an awesome cheese and charcuterie board! It's simple, easy and so impressive for a crowd!

I used to be one of those people who went to the grocery store 484,304 times a day. Whether it was for personal groceries, work groceries, or an emergency grocery run because I forgot the most important item of all.

close x

I guess toilet paper just isn’t that important. But thanks to the new partnership ALDI has with Instacart, I haven’t really felt the need to leave home anymore!

How to Make a Meat and Cheese Board - All you need to know to make an awesome cheese and charcuterie board! It's simple, easy and so impressive for a crowd!

If you don’t know what Instacart is, it is a same-day grocery store delivery service app. You can simply grab all of your groceries with the use of your fingers and your phone or laptop. Just type in your ingredient and add to cart. That’s it, guys.

Then a real, live personal shopper gets to work, choosing all your ingredients and delivering them to your door. They even text you if an item on your list isn’t available to suggest substitutions.


How to Make a Meat and Cheese Board - All you need to know to make an awesome cheese and charcuterie board! It's simple, easy and so impressive for a crowd!

You can even schedule out your deliveries if you know you won’t be home by a specific hour. I have even scheduled my groceries delivery as much as one week out so I can have fresh groceries on my doorstep after a week long vacation.

Genius, I know.

How to Make a Meat and Cheese Board - All you need to know to make an awesome cheese and charcuterie board! It's simple, easy and so impressive for a crowd!

And as you can see from my shopping cart above, I had ordered a ton of cheese, fruit and deli meat. Because I really needed to make myself a pretty banging cheese board.

You know I love a good cheese board. And I love it even more with ALDI prices.

How to Make a Meat and Cheese Board - All you need to know to make an awesome cheese and charcuterie board! It's simple, easy and so impressive for a crowd!

I’m paying for so much less, yet, it looks equally fabulous.

I also basically ate the entire board myself during Game Day Sunday. I’m sorry but the prosciutto wrapped melon wedges had my complete attention.

How to Make a Meat and Cheese Board - All you need to know to make an awesome cheese and charcuterie board! It's simple, easy and so impressive for a crowd!

For those of you who have not tried having your ALDI groceries delivered from Instacart just yet, hurry up and download the app to try it for yourself!

It’s life changing. And it’s available in Los Angeles, Dallas, and Atlanta with plans to roll out to other cities ASAP.

HOW TO MAKE A MEAT AND CHEESE BOARD 
YIELD: 10-12 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 15 MINUTES
All you need to know to make an awesome cheese and charcuterie board! It’s simple, easy and so impressive for a crowd!

PRINT RECIPE
INGREDIENTS:
Happy Farms Preferred Brie Cheese Round
Priano Parmesan Italian Cheese Wedge
Happy Farms Pepper Jack Cheese
Happy Farms Preferred Blue Cheese Wedge
Happy Farms Preferred Plain Goat Cheese
1 Cantaloupe Melon
1 Bartlett pear
Red and black grapes
Savoritz Six Cracker Assortment
Savoritz Sea Salt Pita Crackers
Lunch Mate Genoa Salami
Appleton Farms Herbs de Provence Dry Flavored Salami
Specially Selected Prosciutto Di Parma
Southern Grove Pistachios
Southern Grove Roasted Almonds with Sea Salt
Rosemary sprigs 

START RECIPE
CREAMY CAULIFLOWER GRATIN 
POSTED BY CHUNGAH ON NOVEMBER 8, 2017	22 COMMENTS » 
Disclosure: This post is sponsored by America’s Dairy Farm Families and Importers, in partnership with the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy. As always, I only partner with brands that I love and truly believe in, allowing me to create more quick and easy recipes to get us through the week without breaking the bank. All opinions expressed are my own. 

So creamy, so cheesy and just SO stinking EASY!!! Perfectly baked until golden brown and bubbly. An absolute crowd-pleaser!!! 




Cauliflower gratin. 

close x 

It’s certainly not your usual classic Thanksgiving gratin. That’s for sure. 

It’s a little different, but it’s one of those extra special dishes for the holidays, bringing undeniable joy with second and third servings without feeling too much guilt. 

Hello. It’s filled with cauliflower! 

This is what brings the family together more than ever – enjoying the creamiest cauliflower gratin, sharing awkward glances at that last serving left in the casserole dish because no one wants to be that person. 

And that cream sauce, which is of course, made with milk. An ingredient that is natural, wholesome and fresh. It just melts in your mouth. 

This is what real food is all about: a comforting, cozy gratin made from scratch from beginning to end! 




CREAMY CAULIFLOWER GRATIN  
YIELD: 6 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 40 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 55 MINUTES 
So creamy, so cheesy and just SO stinking EASY!!! Perfectly baked until golden brown and bubbly. An absolute crowd-pleaser!!! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1/4 cup Panko* 
1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan, divided 
1 head cauliflower, cut into florets 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 large shallot, diced 
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme leaves 
1 1/2 cups whole milk 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese 
3 thyme sprigs 
DIRECTIONS: 

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 
In a small bowl, combine olive oil, Panko and 1/4 cup Parmesan: set aside. 
Place cauliflower in a steamer bet and set over boiling water. Cover and steam until crisp-tender, about 4-5 minutes: drain well. 
Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add garlic and shallots, and cook, stirring frequently, until fragrant, about 2 minutes. 
Whisk in flour and thyme until lightly browned, about 1 minute. Gradually whisk in milk, heavy cream and Dijon. Cook, whisking constantly, until incorporated and slightly thickened, about 4-5 minutes. If the mixture is too thick, add more milk as needed: season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Stir in cauliflower, mozzarella and remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan until the cheeses have melted, about 1-2 minutes. Sprinkle with Panko mixture. 
Place into oven and bake until golden brown and bubbly, about 20-25 minutes.
Serve immediately, garnished with thyme, if desired. 
*Panko is a Japanese-style breadcrumb and can be found in the Asian section of your local grocery store. 

START RECIPE
SLOW COOKER BUTTERNUT SQUASH CHILI 
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES COOK TIME: 8 HOURS 5 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 8 HOUR 25 MINUTES 
Just 20 min prep! Then you can come home to a cozy, hearty, comforting butternut squash turkey chili in the crockpot! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 pound ground turkey 
1 onion, diced 
2 (14.5-ounce) diced fire-roasted diced tomatoes 
1 (15-ounce) can red kidney beans, drained and rinsed 
1 (15-ounce) can black beans, drained and rinsed 
1 red bell pepper, chopped 
1 poblano pepper, seeded and chopped 
2 chipotle peppers in adobo sauce, finely chopped
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
2 teaspoons smoked paprika   
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
2 teaspoons dried oregano 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
4 cups diced butternut squash 
1/4 cup finely chopped fresh cilantro leaves 
DIRECTIONS: 

Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium high heat. Add ground turkey and onion. Cook until turkey has browned, about 3-5 minutes, making sure to crumble the turkey as it cooks: drain excess fat.  
Place ground turkey mixture into a 6-qt slow cooker. Stir in tomatoes, beans, peppers, garlic, chili powder, paprika, cumin and oregano: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Without stirring, top with butternut squash in an even layer.
Cover and cook on low heat for 7-8 hours or high heat for 3-4 hours. Gently fold in squash: stir in cilantro. 
Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
SLOW COOKER FRENCH ONION SOUP 
YIELD: 8 SERVINGS PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES COOK TIME: 10 HOURS 5 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 10 HOURS 20 MINUTES 
Did you know you can make French onion soup in the crockpot?! It’s ridiculously easy with basically no stirring and no work! 

PRINT RECIPE 
INGREDIENTS: 
3 pounds sweet onions, thinly sliced 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 
2 teaspoons brown sugar 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
6 fresh thyme sprigs 
1 bay leaf 
6 cups beef stock 
2 teaspoons sherry vinegar 
1 (12-ounce) French baguette, sliced 
1 cup shredded Gruyиre cheese 
1 cup shredded asiago cheese 
DIRECTIONS:

Place onions into a 6-qt slow cooker. 
Stir in butter, brown sugar and 1 teaspoon salt: top with thyme and bay leaf. Cover and cook on high heat for 8-10 hours, or until onions are caramelized and browned.* 
Stir in beef stock and sherry: season with salt and pepper, to taste. Cover and cook on high heat for 2-3 hours, or until heated through. Remove and discard thyme and bay leaf.
Preheat oven to broil. 
Place baguette slices onto a baking sheet. Place into oven and broil until golden brown on both sides, about 1-2 minutes per side: set aside. 
Divide soup into ramekins or ovenproof bowls. Place onto a baking sheet. Top with baguette slices to cover the surface of the soup completely: sprinkle with cheeses. Place into oven and broil until golden brown and cheeses have melted: about 2 minutes.
Serve immediately. 
Stir halfway, as needed, to prevent burning. 

START RECIPE

BLT Chicken Lettuce Cups 
311262024 
201 
SHARES 
I’ve got a new recipe for you that is so easy and so good, AND it’s a great way to get a reluctant family member to eat their lettuce. :) My family scarfed down these BLT Chicken Lettuce Cups, and I loved how it took no time to make (or clean up). If you’re feeding more than four people, you’ll definitely want to double this recipe! Enjoy. 

BLT Chicken Lettuce Cups on 100 Days of RealFood 
 

BLT Chicken Lettuce Cups on 100 Days of RealFood 
BLT CHICKEN LETTUCE CUPS 
5 FROM 3 VOTES 
COURSE: LUNCH, MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 35 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
3 cups chicken, cooked, and shredded or diced 
6 pieces bacon, cooked and crumbled 
16 ounces tomatoes, cherry or grape, quartered 
1/2 cup sour cream 
2 tablespoons milk 
1/4 cup green onions, sliced, use white and green parts 
2 tablespoons dill, fresh, chopped 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
pepper, to taste 
1 head romaine lettuce, leaves washed and separated 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large bowl, combine the chicken (use my favorite method to cook chicken), bacon, and tomatoes and set aside. 
In a smaller bowl, whisk together the sour cream, milk, green onions, dill, salt, and pepper. Pour the dressing over the chicken and toss to combine. 
Spoon the chicken salad into the lettuce leaves and serve. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 

START RECIPE
Asian Glazed Fish (+ Our Holiday Team Dinner!) 
298212 
114 
SHARES 
We had our annual holiday dinner over the weekend with our lovely team (most of whom live in Charlotte), and it was a fun time as always! We invited over (from right) Amy, Meghan, Shawn, Kiran, and their spouses for a potluck sit-down dinner. That’s my husband Jason (and me!) on the left side of the picture. 

Blog Team Holiday Dinner on 100 Days of Real Food 
It’s always interesting coming up with the menu for our group since there are a few food allergies and such to consider. But year after year we keep going back to Asian food (and occasionally Mexican food), which seems to offer a lot of good options when gluten and dairy are to be avoided. 

So, below are some pics of all the good stuff we came up with to share with each other! I provided the main dish – Asian Glazed Fish (recipe below) – along with coconut rice, maple roasted sweet potatoes and carrots, and some edamame. We actually had two versions of coconut rice because I’d been working on a new recipe and my husband Jason (who CAN cook, by the way!) thought he could make a version that was better than mine. So I suggested we each make our own recipe and let everyone vote. Occasionally husbands are right about things, but this was not one of those occasions – ha! I can’t help but gloat a tad about my almost unanimous win … I am the recipe developer in the family, after all! LOL. Either way, it was fun. 

Blog Team Dinner on 100 Days of Real Food, including Asian Glazed FishThe other dishes you see here are Shrimp and Spring Roll appetizers (similar to these) with two dipping sauces from Amy, Asian Meatballs from Kiran, Asian Slaw from Shawn (similar to the recipe in my new book with quinoa added), and a variety of desserts from Meghan, including Fruit-Filled Wontons, Chewy Raspberry Meringues, and – the crowd fav – Coconut Macaroons. One thing is for sure … no one went hungry! :) 
As promised, here is the Asian Glazed Fish recipe I made. I hope you enjoy it and that these other ideas provide some cooking inspiration for you! 

Asian Glazed Fish on 100 Days of Real Food 
ASIAN GLAZED FISH 
5 FROM 2 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 12 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 17 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE FISH 
1 pound mild white fish, (such as flounder, cod, or mahi mahi) 
1/2 cup whole-wheat flour, I used a gluten-free 1:1 substitute for this crowd 
2 tablespoons coconut oil 
FOR THE SAUCE 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon ginger, freshly grated 
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
1/3 cup water 
3 tablespoons soy sauce, I used gluten-free tamari 
1 tablespoon honey 
1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar 
OPTIONAL GARNISH 
green onions, sliced 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Cut the fish into 1-inch chunks and coat all sides with the flour. 
Melt the coconut oil in a skillet over medium heat and cook the fish on both sides until it's golden brown and cooked (white and flaky) all the way through, about 5 - 6 minutes. If you chose seafood that's on the thinner side, it will not take as long to cook. 
Transfer the fish to a clean plate and add the garlic, ginger, and red pepper to the same pan. Cook for 1 minute while scraping up the brown bits off the bottom of the pan and stirring. (I found that the gluten-free flour stuck a little more than normal during this step - be careful not to let it burn!) 
Pour in the water, soy sauce, honey, and vinegar and cook while stirring occasionally until it thickens, 2 - 3 minutes. Add the fish back into the pan to coat, garnish with green onions if desired, and serve. 
RECIPE NOTES 
1. Gluten-free when using gluten-free soy sauce and gluten-free flour as I did. 
2. We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


START RECIPE
Aunt Vicki’s Gumbo 
119156838 
321 
SHARES 
My husband’s family is from New Orleans so they get all the credit for introducing me to the unique and flavorful cuisine of The Big Easy. From jambalaya to crawfish etouffee to seafood gumbo…many new dishes have been added to my list of “favorites” since my first visit to New Orleans almost 15 years ago. And even though beignets are basically deep-fried white flour treats, they certainly make my list of favorites as well. :) 
Today I want to share a family recipe that came from my husband’s Aunt Vicki. It was introduced to us as a “seafood gumbo,” but what I’ve learned over the years is that this dish can easily be an “anything gumbo” instead. What that means is don’t go out and buy a bunch of new ingredients to make gumbo…instead try to use some of what you already have on hand. If you don’t have shrimp and crab well then throw in some leftover Thanksgiving turkey (if you still have some in the freezer like us). And if you don’t like bell peppers then just add more celery instead. My favorite dishes are the ones that are flexible so use this recipe as a guide and don’t be afraid to get creative. As long as you start with the suggested roux (butter and whole-wheat flour) it’s pretty hard to mess up. 

Aunt Vicki's Gumbo from 100 Days of Real Food 
AUNT VICKI’S GUMBO 
4.86 FROM 7 VOTES 
COURSE: LUNCH, MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 50 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
6 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
2/3 cup butter  
2/3 cup whole-wheat flour 
2 stalks celery, diced 
1 onion, small, diced 
1 green bell pepper, diced 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 10-oz can stewed tomatoes, chopped with juice 
2 cups chicken broth 
1 cup flat beer, optional (can sub more stock instead) 
1 bay leaf 
1 teaspoon salt 
pepper, to taste 
1 pinch thyme, dried 
Ѕ cup parsley, fresh, flat leaf, chopped 
Ѕ teaspoon cayenne pepper 
ѕ lb shrimp, raw, peeled 
Ѕ lb lump crab meat, cooked, shredded 
Ѕ pound sausage, browned and sliced or crumbled, andouille or other variety 
brown rice, cooked 
FOR SERVING (OPTIONAL) 
Filй powder 
hot sauce 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Add butter to large soup pot over medium heat. Once melted, sprinkle in flour and whisk together thoroughly. Keep whisking steadily over medium heat until mixture browns (about 10 – 15 minutes). This technique is called “making a roux. 
Dump diced veggies, onion, and garlic into pot. Stir and cook over medium heat until soft, about 10 minutes. 
Add stewed tomatoes with juice, stir once, and cover. Stir 3 – 4 times over next 15 minutes. 
Add chicken broth, 1 cup water, and 1 cup beer. Add all spices, stir once, and simmer uncovered for another 15 minutes. 
Add cooked sausage and seafood and cook on medium heat until shrimp is done all the way through. 
Serve over brown rice and sprinkle filй powder on top (optional). Provide hot sauce if desired. 
And don't forget to freeze the leftovers! 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 

START RECIPE

BLT with (or without) Crabmeat 
16616 
38 
SHARES 
Here is a recipe that offers a little twist on the classic BLT sandwich…if you so desire. With some fresh locally grown or homegrown tomatoes you cannot go wrong whether you decide to include the crabmeat or not. I do admit this is not an entrйe my kids will dig into, but they do like bacon and the bread so I just gave them some of that along with a few other kid-friendly items. 

BLT WITH (OR WITHOUT) CRABMEAT 
COURSE: LUNCH, MAIN COURSE PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 20 MINUTES 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
4 slices bacon 
4 whole-wheat buns, split and lightly toasted 
1 Ѕ cups lump crab meat 
2 inch tomatoes, ripe, cut into ј slices 
1 head Bibb lettuce, (or Boston) 
Ѕ cup mayonnaise 
1 tablespoon tarragon, fresh, optional 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Fry the bacon on both sides over medium-high heat until crisp, about 5 - 10 minutes. Using tongs, transfer to paper towels to drain. 
If using tarragon finely chop it and mix into mayonnaise. 
Evenly divide and spread the mayo mixture onto the lightly toasted buns. 
Top the buns with crabmeat, tomatoes, bacon, and lettuce.  
Enjoy! 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 

START RECIPE
Bacon Wrapped Jalapeсo Poppers 
9093841481 
1.4K 
SHARES 
I must be living under a rock because I just recently learned about jalapeno poppers that are wrapped in bacon instead of battered and deep-fried. Some Texan friends (of friends) brought these little treats to a New Year’s Eve party, and I had to force myself to stop eating them so there would be enough for others! Even though I don’t normally go for spicy dishes. Apparently this appetizer is very much a “Texan thing,” and once I got home and “googled” it I realized I must be late to the party. Well I guess it’s better late than never so here’s our version of this recipe…just in time for those upcoming Superbowl parties! 

Jalapeno Poppers from 100 Days of Real Food  
Bacon Wrapped Jalapeсo Poppers 
Here are a few more football and/or tailgate snack ideas: 
The Best Pulled Pork in a Crock Pot 
Potato Skins 
Meatballs (with toothpicks & red dipping sauce) 
Pimento Cheese (cold or hot) 
Glazed Popcorn 
Easy Cheesy Crackers 
Pesto Cream Cheese Bake (and other apps) 
Cheddar Garlic Biscuits 
Slow Cooker Baked Beans 
Chicken and Cheese Tostadas 
football food 

Ready to go in the oven… 
 

Jalapeno Poppers from 100 Days of Real Food 
BACON WRAPPED JALAPEСO POPPERS 
4.89 FROM 9 VOTES 
COURSE: APPETIZER, SNACK  PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 45 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT) 
24 
PIECES 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
12 jalapeсos 
1 block cream cheese, (low fat version not recommended. You can do homemade pimento cheese instead: see note for recipe link) 
8 slices bacon, smoked, raw 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. 
Slice each jalapeсo down the middle and remove both the stem and the seeds. To remove the seeds you can either use a spoon or your finger. If desired, this step can be done while wearing latex gloves, but whatever you do don’t rub your eyes after handling the pepper seeds! 
Cut the raw bacon in thirds using either a knife or culinary scissors. 
Using a spoon, fill the jalapeсo halves with cream cheese. It’s okay if it gets a little messy. 
Wrap one small piece of bacon around each cream cheese-filled jalapeno with the bacon seam on the bottom. 
Protect the baking sheet with a piece of foil and place a drying rack or other cooking rack on top of the foil-lined baking sheet. Place the completed jalapeсos on the rack so the bacon grease can drain onto the foil. 
Bake at 375 degrees F for 20 – 25 minutes or until the bacon looks brown and crisp. 
Serve warm and enjoy! 
RECIPE NOTES
Pimento cheese recipe - Homemade Pimento Cheese 

pecial equipment needed: Also need: Drying rack or other metal grate to put on top of baking sheet and aluminum foil to protect the pan. Note: Don’t be afraid to double this recipe for an extra big crowd. 

We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 

START RECIPE
THE EASIEST SPINACH LASAGNA 
5 FROM 8 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 55 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 10 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT):  
6 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
15 ounces ricotta cheese 
8 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated  
1 cup parmesan cheese, grated and divided 
10 ounces frozen spinach, thawed and squeezed dry (I used Cascadian Farm Organic brand and love that it’s already chopped for me!) 
1 egg 
ј teaspoon salt 
3 cups pasta sauce, 25 ounce jar 
8 ounces whole-wheat lasagna, no-boil 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. 
In a large bowl, mix the ricotta, mozzarella, ѕ cup of the Parmesan, spinach, egg, and salt. 
In a 13 x 9 inch baking dish, spread ѕ cup sauce on the bottom. Layer a few of the noodles on top. Spread a third of the cheese mixture on top of that and then another 3/4 cup sauce. Repeat layers until all ingredients are gone, ending with the sauce. 
Top with remaining ј cup Parmesan, cover with foil, and bake for 30 minutes. Remove foil START RECIPE
and bake for another 20 to 25 minutes or until the noodles have completely softened. Let rest for 5 minutes, serve warm, and enjoy! 
RECIPE NOTES  
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible.  


Ad Feedback  

START RECIPE

GREEN CURRY FISH PACKETS 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 40 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT):  
4 
INGREDIENTS 
1 15-oz can coconut milk 
3 tablespoons green curry paste, found in jars in ethnic section of grocery store 
4 servings brown rice, cooked al dente 
1 pound mild white fish, cut into 4 pieces, such as grouper or cod 
3/4 pound sugar snap peas, trimmed 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat a gas (or charcoal) grill to medium high. 
In a bowl, whisk together the coconut milk and green curry paste. Set aside. 
Cut the foil into eight large pieces (about 14 - 16 inches long) and start four grill packets by laying them out double stacked in a plus sign shape. At this point you can line them with parchment paper, if desired, by simply putting a single layer just on top of the foil. 
Evenly distribute the cooked rice, fish, and sugar snap peas into the packets. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Pour the sauce on top of each packet being careful not to let it overflow off to the sides. 
For each packet, carefully bring up two of the long sides of the foil so the edges meet at the center. Fold the two edges over together at least three times. Fold the remaining open edges up on themselves at least two to three times and crimp them together with your fingers. 
Grill the packets for 8 - 10 minutes or until the fish is cooked all the way through (white and flaky in the center). Serve warm. 
RECIPE NOTES 
*We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 
* *Coconut is not a tree nut, however if you have a tree nut allergy consult your doctor before consuming. 

 PORK AND PEACH KABOBS WITH A TERIYAKI GLAZE 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 50 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT):  
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE KABOBS: 
1 1/4 - 1 1/3 pounds pork tenderloin, boneless (not to be confused with a pork loin) 
4 peaches 
1/2 red onion 
FOR THE GLAZE: 
1 tablespoon butter 
1 tablespoon whole-wheat flour 
1/2 cup soy sauce 
1/4 cup water 
2 tablespoons ginger, fresh, peeled and minced 
2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil 
2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 
2 tablespoons honey 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Cut the tenderloin into 1 - 1 ВЅ-inch chunks. Cut each peach in half, discard pit, and cut into 5 or 6 slices each. Cut the onion into 1 - 1 ВЅ-inch square pieces. 
Thread onto skewers, alternating ingredients to make 4 or 5 mixed kabobs. For mine, I did two sets of pork and peach for every piece of onion. 
In a small sautГ© pan over medium heat, melt the butter. Whisk in the flour and cook for 1 - 2 minutes until it darkens in color but does not burn. Whisk in the rest of the glaze ingredients and cook at a light boil while stirring occasionally until the mixture thickens enough to lightly coat a spoon, 5 - 10 minutes. Remove from heat. 
Preheat a gas grill to medium-high heat, around 425В° F (or prepare a charcoal fire), and place the skewers on the grill. Drizzle half the glaze over top of the skewers and cook for 5 - 6 minutes. Turn the skewers over, pour the remaining glaze on top, and cook until the pork is done (no longer pink in the middle), another 5 - 6 minutes. 
Serve warm with a big green salad and brown rice on the side. 
RECIPE NOTES 
1. Will also need 4 skewers. 
2. If the glaze is cooled in the refrigerator, it will thicken even more. 
3. We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 

START RECIPE
MEAT AND MUSHROOM TACOS 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 35 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
5 
Adapted from Prep Dish 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE TACOS 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 pound ground pork, or beef or bison 
1 yellow onion, diced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
8 ounces mushrooms, sliced 
1 15-oz can pinto beans, drained 
2 tablespoons chili powder 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 avocados, peeled and sliced 
FOR SERVING 
1 head Bibb lettuce, or whole-grain corn tortillas (homemade or we like Food for Life brand) 
OPTIONAL ACCOMPANIMENTS 
cabbage, sliced 
sour cream 
1 lime, for the juice 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the meat and cook while breaking apart meat until no longer pink. 
Add onion, garlic, mushrooms, beans, chili powder, and salt and cook for another 5 - 7 minutes or until the onion is softened. 
Serve the filling in lettuce leaves or corn tortillas, topped with avocado slices and other desired accompaniments. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
BUTTERY ROASTED CHICKEN WITH BREADCRUMBS AND HERBS 
4.8 FROM 5 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 50 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1 1/2 pounds chicken breasts, boneless, skinless 
salt, to taste  
pepper, to taste 
1 cup whole-wheat breadcrumbs, homemade or store-bought 
2 tablespoons thyme, fresh 
2 tablespoons parsley, fresh 
zest lemon, from 1 lemon 
4 tablespoons butter, melted 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 375В° F. 
Cut the chicken into 1 1/2 to 2-inch thick slices. Place in the bottom of a baking dish and season with salt and pepper. 
In a small bowl, combine the breadcrumbs, herbs, and lemon zest. Stir in the melted butter and then spread on top of the chicken. 
Bake until golden brown on top and the chicken is done (no longer pink) in the thickest part, 25 - 30 minutes. Serve warm. Also great leftover on a salad or in pasta. 
RECIPE NOTES dEASY BRAISED CAJUN PORK CHOPS 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 30 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 35 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
4 pork chops, about ВѕвЂќ thick 
1 teaspoon paprika 
1 teaspoon garlic powder 
Вѕ teaspoon salt 
ВЅ teaspoon pepper 
Вј teaspoon cayenne pepper  
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 cup chicken broth, or vegetable 
INSTRUCTIONS  
In a small bowl mix together the spices with a fork. Sprinkle the spice mixture on both sides of the pork chops until evenly coated. 
Heat the olive oil over medium heat in a large skillet with a tight fitting lid. Sear the pork chops (in batches if necessary) on both sides until golden brown, about 2 to 3 minutes per side. 
With all the chops in the pan, pour in the broth, cover, turn down to medium low, and cook until the pork chops are done all the way through and no longer pink inside, about 10 to 15 minutes (depending on the thickness of your pork chops). 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible.  


Ad Feedback  

 

102039  
42 d 
SHARES  

Ad Feedback  

START RECIPE
THE EASIEST SPINACH LASAGNA 
5 FROM 8 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 55 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 10 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT):  
6 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
15 ounces ricotta cheese 
8 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated  
1 cup parmesan cheese, grated and divided 
10 ounces frozen spinach, thawed and squeezed dry (I used Cascadian Farm Organic brand and love that itвЂ™s already chopped for me!) 
1 egg 
Вј teaspoon salt 
3 cups pasta sauce, 25 ounce jar 
8 ounces whole-wheat lasagna, no-boil 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. 
In a large bowl, mix the ricotta, mozzarella, Вѕ cup of the Parmesan, spinach, egg, and salt. 
In a 13 x 9 inch baking dish, spread Вѕ cup sauce on the bottom. Layer a few of the noodles on top. Spread a third of the cheese mixture on top of that and then another 3/4 cup sauce. Repeat layers until all ingredients are gone, ending with the sauce. 
Top with remaining Вј cup Parmesan, cover with foil, and bake for 30 minutes. Remove foil and bake for another 20 to 25 minutes or until the noodles have completely softened. Let rest for 5 minutes, serve warm, and enjoy! 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE 
elimSTEP
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
CLASSIC BEEF STROGANOFF 
4.43 FROM 7 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 25 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT):  
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
4 tablespoons butter 
1 onion, thinly sliced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
8 ounces mushrooms, chopped 
1/4 cup whole-wheat flour 
1 pound sirloin steak 
1 1/2 cups beef broth 
1/2 cup sour cream 
1 teaspoon dijon mustard 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
whole-wheat egg noodles, for serving 
parsley, fresh (optional, for garnish) 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In your largest skillet (with a tight-fitting lid) melt the butter over medium heat. Add the onion, garlic and mushrooms to the pan and cook for 2 to 3 minutes while stirring occasionally. 
Meanwhile cut the steak into 1 1/2 inch chunks, season with salt and pepper, and coat them in the 1/4 cup flour. 
Add the steak and any remaining flour to the pan. Feel free to add a little extra butter to the pan if it gets too dry. Evenly brown the meat on medium-high for 1 to 2 minutes then pour the stock into the pan. 
Bring to a boil, while scrapping the brown bits off the bottom of the pan, then lower heat to a simmer, cover the pan, and cook for 5 to 10 minutes or until the meat is cooked all the way through and the sauce begins to thicken. 
Remove the lid and add in 1/4 teaspoon salt, sour cream, mustard, and pepper (to taste). Simmer for another minute or two then serve warm over cooked whole-wheat egg noodles and garnish with fresh parsley if desired. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPEEASY SPINACH GNOCCHI RECIPE 
5 FROM 3 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 20 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT):  
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1 10-pz package frozen spinach 
1 Ѕ cups ricotta cheese, whole-milk 
ѕ cup parmesan cheese, grated 
1 1/4 cup whole-wheat flour, + more for dusting 
1 egg 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Defrost the frozen spinach and squeeze out ALL excess liquid. Put the spinach, ricotta, parmesan, flour and egg in the food processor and pulse until well combined. 
Plop the dough in one pile on a floured cutting board. Sprinkle more flour on top until the dough no longer sticks to your hands. Divide into 3 or 4 pieces and roll each one into a thin log about 1-inch in diameter. Cut the logs into 1 to 1 Ѕ” sized chunks and toss with a little more flour. 
Bring a large pot of water to a boil and slide in the pieces of dough. Cook until all are floating and done all the way through when cut in half, about 3 to 5 minutes. Drain and toss with salt and pepper, to taste. Serve with either a high quality store bought tomato sauce or a homemade one. 
RECIPE NOTES 
Special tools needed: Food Processor  

We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 

 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
EASY WALNUT CRUSTED SALMON 
5 FROM 3 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 13 MINUTES 
Recipe adapted from Hello Fresh 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1 pound salmon, wild-caught, defrosted 
1/4 cup whole-wheat breadcrumbs 
1/4 cup walnuts  
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard, or regular mustard 
1 tablespoon honey 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Place the salmon fillets (I used Ala Gold Brand) on an oiled baking sheet (skin side down) and set aside. 

In a food processor, combine the whole-wheat breadcrumbs, walnuts, mustard, and honey. Process until well combined, scraping the sides as necessary. 
Use a spatula to spread the walnut crust in a layer on top of the salmon. Bake until a little golden brown on top and cooked all the way through, about 12 - 15 minutes (depending on the thickness of your fish). Enjoy! 
RECIPE NOTES 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE

BACON AND BRUSSELS SPROUTS PIZZA 
COURSE: APPETIZER, LUNCH, MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1/2 recipe pizza dough, See note (enough to make two 8 crusts) or one clean store bought variety like Simple Mills** pizza dough almond flour mix 
3 pieces bacon 
1 shallot, diced 
1/2 pound brussels sprouts, trimmed and cut in half 
1/2 cup ricotta cheese 
1/2 cup mozzarella cheese, freshly grated 
1/4 cup parmesan cheese, freshly grated 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven according to the pizza dough directions and prebake the crust if necessary. 
Meanwhile, in a skillet over medium heat, cook the bacon for several minutes on both sides until brown and crispy. Reserve the grease in the pan and place the bacon on a plate lined with a paper towel. Crumble the bacon. 
Add the diced shallots to the pan with the grease and cook on medium for 1 to 2 minutes. 
Turn up the heat to medium-high and add the Brussels sprouts to the pan. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes more while stirring. Add 1/4 cup water, cover with a lid, and steam for 2 to 3 minutes. Check on the sprouts and add more water if necessary. You don't want the pan to dry out completely while they're being steamed. 
Spread the ricotta cheese on the pizza crust and sprinkle with the mozzarella and Parmesan. Top with the Brussels sprouts mixture, then the crumbled bacon, and bake until the cheese is brown and bubbly on top, about 10 to 15 minutes (depending on which crust you used). Enjoy! 
RECIPE NOTES 
Recipe for dough right here - Homemade Whole Wheat Pizza 

**Gluten free if using Simple Mills pizza dough. 



Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
TACO PIE 
5 FROM 4 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 35 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 55 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
Ѕ onion, diced 
1 bell pepper, diced, any color 
Ѕ jalapeno, minced 
1 pound ground beef, or pork 
1 14.5-oz can diced tomatoes, drained 
1 15-oz can black beans, rinsed and drained 
1 cup frozen corn 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1 Ѕ teaspoons cumin 
1 Ѕ teaspoons oregano 
1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups Monterey Jack Cheese, shredded 
16-oz bag frozen roasted sweet potato chunks, I used Cascadian Farm Organic brand 
sour cream, for topping (optional) 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 
Turn up the heat to medium-high and add the ground beef to the pan. Cook the meat while breaking it up with a spatula until brown all the way through. 
Add the tomatoes, black beans, frozen corn kernels, and spices. Cook for another 2 to 3 minutes while stirring occasionally to thoroughly combine the mixture. 
Pour the beef mixture into a rectangular baking dish, top with cheese and then frozen sweet potatoes. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes or until the sweet potatoes are heated all the way through. 
Serve topped with sour cream if desired. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 
 

Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
UNSTUFFED PORK CHOPS 
4.67 FROM 3 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Adapted from Rachael Ray 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1/2 pound sausage, mild, Italian 
1/2 onion, diced 
1 red bell pepper, deseeded and diced 
2 ribs celery, diced 
8 apricots, dried, cut into quarters (I bought the dark-colored unsulphured kind that you can see the front of the picture) 
4 pork chops, boneless and thin, about 1/2 thick - I purchased center cut and they were really good 
1/2 cup broth, or water 
1/4 cup heavy cream 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat the oil in your largest skillet over medium-high heat. Add the sausage and begin to brown it while breaking up the meat with a spatula, about 2 to 3 minutes. 
Add the diced onion, bell pepper, celery, and apricots to the pan and cook for another 2 to 3 minutes. 
Make room for the pork chops and nestle them into the pan among the sausage mixture. Sear each side of the pork chops until golden brown, a couple minutes per side. 
Pour in the broth or water, cover the pan, turn down the heat to low, and cook until the pork chops are done all the way through (no longer pink), about 5 to 6 minutes. 
Take the lid off the pan, stir in the cream until well combined, and serve warm. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 
724516 
52 
SHARES delimJUNK
 
Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
CHOPPED SALAD 
5 FROM 6 VOTES 
COURSE: APPETIZER, SALAD PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT):  
4 
Inspired by The Gladly restaurant in Phoenix, Arizona 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE SALAD 
1 cup whole-wheat couscous, pearl, uncooked (pearl couscous is also known as Israeli couscous) 
4 cups arugula 
1 tomato, large, diced 
1/4 cup parmesan cheese, grated 
2 teaspoons olive oil, divided 
2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
1/3 cup pepitas, shelled pumpkin seeds 
1/3 cup raisins 
1 4- oz pack salmon, smoked, wild-caught 
FOR THE DRESSING 
1/3 cup sour cream, (could also substitute mayo although in most cases, it doesn't technically follow our real food rules) 
2 tablespoons buttermilk 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 tablespoon basil, fresh, chopped 
1 clove garlic, minced 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Cook the couscous according to package directions and immediately toss with 1 teaspoon olive oil to prevent clumping. Allow to cool. 
On a large platter, arrange the arugula in a row down the center. Make a row of the cooked (yet, slightly cooled or cold) couscous next to it. Sprinkle the couscous with a little salt. 
In a small bowl toss the diced tomato with the Parmesan, 1 teaspoon olive oil, balsamic vinegar, salt, and pepper. Make a row of it on the other side of the arugula. 
Toast the pepitas in a toaster oven or in a small, dry pan on the stove. They are done when you start to hear a bit of popping. Toss them together with the raisins and place in another row next to the tomatoes. 
Cut up the smoked salmon and place it in a row next to the couscous. 
To make the dressing, either whisk together the sour cream, buttermilk, lemon juice, basil, and garlic, or for the best results, quickly blend it together with a hand immersion blender. Pour over top and serve. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
BLT CHICKEN LETTUCE CUPS 
5 FROM 3 VOTES 
COURSE: LUNCH, MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 35 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
3 cups chicken, cooked, and shredded or diced 
6 pieces bacon, cooked and crumbled 
16 ounces tomatoes, cherry or grape, quartered 
1/2 cup sour cream 
2 tablespoons milk 
1/4 cup green onions, sliced, use white and green parts 
2 tablespoons dill, fresh, chopped 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 head romaine lettuce, leaves washed and separated 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large bowl, combine the chicken (use my favorite method to cook chicken), bacon, and tomatoes and set aside. 
In a smaller bowl, whisk together the sour cream, milk, green onions, dill, salt, and pepper. Pour the dressing over the chicken and toss to combine. 
Spoon the chicken salad into the lettuce leaves and serve. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
POTATO AND CAULIFLOWER CHOWDER 
5 FROM 5 VOTES  
COURSE: LUNCH, MAIN COURSE, SOUP  PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
6 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
3 pieces bacon, chopped 
1/2 onion, diced 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 head cauliflower, cut into 1-2 florets 
2 pounds potatoes, Russet, unpeeled and cut into 1 inch cubes 
6 cups chicken broth 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
2 tablespoons butter 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt, (if using store bought broth taste test after only 1 teaspoon) 
pepper, to taste 
RECOMMENDED TOPPINGS 
cheese, grated 
green onions, sliced 
bacon, cooked 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large soup pot over medium heat, cook the bacon pieces while stirring, until golden brown, about 3 to 4 minutes. 
Add the diced onion and minced garlic to the pot and cook while stirring for 1 more minute. 
Add the cauliflower florets, potato chunks, and broth to the pot and bring to a boil. Turn the heat down to a low simmer and cook until the cauliflower and potatoes are tender when pierced with a fork, about 15 minutes. 
Dip a hand immersion blender into the pot and puree most but not all of the soup. Alternatively, pulse in a counter top blender until mostly smooth with some chunks remaining. 
Stir in the cream, butter, salt, and pepper. If desired, top with grated cheese, sliced green onions, and more bacon, and enjoy! Freeze the leftovers in individual portions for a rainy day. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback  

START RECIPE
BACON AND BRUSSELS SPROUTS PIZZA 
COURSE: APPETIZER, LUNCH, MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1/2 recipe pizza dough, See note (enough to make two 8 crusts) or one clean store bought variety like Simple Mills** pizza dough almond flour mix 
3 pieces bacon 
1 shallot, diced 
1/2 pound brussels sprouts, trimmed and cut in half 
1/2 cup ricotta cheese 
1/2 cup mozzarella cheese, freshly grated 
1/4 cup parmesan cheese, freshly grated 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven according to the pizza dough directions and prebake the crust if necessary. 
Meanwhile, in a skillet over medium heat, cook the bacon for several minutes on both sides until brown and crispy. Reserve the grease in the pan and place the bacon on a plate lined with a paper towel. Crumble the bacon. 
Add the diced shallots to the pan with the grease and cook on medium for 1 to 2 minutes. 
Turn up the heat to medium-high and add the Brussels sprouts to the pan. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes more while stirring. Add 1/4 cup water, cover with a lid, and steam for 2 to 3 minutes. Check on the sprouts and add more water if necessary. You don't want the pan to dry out completely while they're being steamed. 
Spread the ricotta cheese on the pizza crust and sprinkle with the mozzarella and Parmesan. Top with the Brussels sprouts mixture, then the crumbled bacon, and bake until the cheese is brown and bubbly on top, about 10 to 15 minutes (depending on which crust you used). Enjoy! 
RECIPE NOTES 
Recipe for dough right here - Homemade Whole Wheat Pizza 

**Gluten free if using Simple Mills pizza dough. 



Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
TACO PIE 
5 FROM 4 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 35 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 55 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
Ѕ onion, diced 
1 bell pepper, diced, any color 
Ѕ jalapeno, minced 
1 pound ground beef, or pork 
1 14.5-oz can diced tomatoes, drained 
1 15-oz can black beans, rinsed and drained 
1 cup frozen corn 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1 Ѕ teaspoons cumin 
1 Ѕ teaspoons oregano 
1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups Monterey Jack Cheese, shredded 
16-oz bag frozen roasted sweet potato chunks, I used Cascadian Farm Organic brand 
sour cream, for topping (optional) 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 
Turn up the heat to medium-high and add the ground beef to the pan. Cook the meat while breaking it up with a spatula until brown all the way through. 
Add the tomatoes, black beans, frozen corn kernels, and spices. Cook for another 2 to 3 minutes while stirring occasionally to thoroughly combine the mixture. 
Pour the beef mixture into a rectangular baking dish, top with cheese and then frozen sweet potatoes. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes or until the sweet potatoes are heated all the way through. 
Serve topped with sour cream if desired. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. P
 

Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
UNSTUFFED PORK CHOPS 
4.67 FROM 3 VOTES 
COURSE: MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES  TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Adapted from Rachael Ray 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1/2 pound sausage, mild, Italian 
1/2 onion, diced 
1 red bell pepper, deseeded and diced 
2 ribs celery, diced 
8 apricots, dried, cut into quarters (I bought the dark-colored unsulphured kind that you can see the front of the picture) 
4 pork chops, boneless and thin, about 1/2 thick - I purchased center cut and they were really good 
1/2 cup broth, or water 
1/4 cup heavy cream 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat the oil in your largest skillet over medium-high heat. Add the sausage and begin to brown it while breaking up the meat with a spatula, about 2 to 3 minutes. 
Add the diced onion, bell pepper, celery, and apricots to the pan and cook for another 2 to 3 minutes. 
Make room for the pork chops and nestle them into the pan among the sausage mixture. Sear each side of the pork chops until golden brown, a couple minutes per side. 
Pour in the broth or water, cover the pan, turn down the heat to low, and cook until the pork chops are done all the way through (no longer pink), about 5 to 6 minutes. 
Take the lid off the pan, stir in the cream until well combined, and serve warm. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. P
724516 
52 
SHARES 
 
Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
CHOPPED SALAD 
5 FROM 6 VOTES 
COURSE: APPETIZER, SALAD PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT):  
4 
Inspired by The Gladly restaurant in Phoenix, Arizona 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
FOR THE SALAD 
1 cup whole-wheat couscous, pearl, uncooked (pearl couscous is also known as Israeli couscous) 
4 cups arugula 
1 tomato, large, diced 
1/4 cup parmesan cheese, grated 
2 teaspoons olive oil, divided 
2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar 
salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 
1/3 cup pepitas, shelled pumpkin seeds 
1/3 cup raisins 
1 4- oz pack salmon, smoked, wild-caught 
FOR THE DRESSING 
1/3 cup sour cream, (could also substitute mayo although in most cases, it doesn't technically follow our real food rules) 
2 tablespoons buttermilk 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 tablespoon basil, fresh, chopped 
1 clove garlic, minced 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Cook the couscous according to package directions and immediately toss with 1 teaspoon olive oil to prevent clumping. Allow to cool. 
On a large platter, arrange the arugula in a row down the center. Make a row of the cooked (yet, slightly cooled or cold) couscous next to it. Sprinkle the couscous with a little salt. 
In a small bowl toss the diced tomato with the Parmesan, 1 teaspoon olive oil, balsamic vinegar, salt, and pepper. Make a row of it on the other side of the arugula. 
Toast the pepitas in a toaster oven or in a small, dry pan on the stove. They are done when you start to hear a bit of popping. Toss them together with the raisins and place in another row next to the tomatoes. 
Cut up the smoked salmon and place it in a row next to the couscous. 
To make the dressing, either whisk together the sour cream, buttermilk, lemon juice, basil, and garlic, or for the best results, quickly blend it together with a hand immersion blender. Pour over top and serve. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback  

START RECIPE
BLT CHICKEN LETTUCE CUPS 
5 FROM 3 VOTES 
COURSE: LUNCH, MAIN COURSE  PREP TIME: 35 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
4 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
3 cups chicken, cooked, and shredded or diced 
6 pieces bacon, cooked and crumbled 
16 ounces tomatoes, cherry or grape, quartered 
1/2 cup sour cream 
2 tablespoons milk 
1/4 cup green onions, sliced, use white and green parts 
2 tablespoons dill, fresh, chopped 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 head romaine lettuce, leaves washed and separated 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large bowl, combine the chicken (use my favorite method to cook chicken), bacon, and tomatoes and set aside. 
In a smaller bowl, whisk together the sour cream, milk, green onions, dill, salt, and pepper. Pour the dressing over the chicken and toss to combine. 
Spoon the chicken salad into the lettuce leaves and serve. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback 

START RECIPE
POTATO AND CAULIFLOWER CHOWDER 
5 FROM 5 VOTES  
COURSE: LUNCH, MAIN COURSE, SOUP  PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES  SERVINGS  (ADJUST TO SUIT): 
6 
Print 
INGREDIENTS 
3 pieces bacon, chopped 
1/2 onion, diced 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 head cauliflower, cut into 1-2 florets 
2 pounds potatoes, Russet, unpeeled and cut into 1 inch cubes 
6 cups chicken broth 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
2 tablespoons butter 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt, (if using store bought broth taste test after only 1 teaspoon) 
pepper, to taste 
RECOMMENDED TOPPINGS 
cheese, grated 
green onions, sliced 
bacon, cooked 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a large soup pot over medium heat, cook the bacon pieces while stirring, until golden brown, about 3 to 4 minutes. 
Add the diced onion and minced garlic to the pot and cook while stirring for 1 more minute. 
Add the cauliflower florets, potato chunks, and broth to the pot and bring to a boil. Turn the heat down to a low simmer and cook until the cauliflower and potatoes are tender when pierced with a fork, about 15 minutes. 
Dip a hand immersion blender into the pot and puree most but not all of the soup. Alternatively, pulse in a counter top blender until mostly smooth with some chunks remaining. 
Stir in the cream, butter, salt, and pepper. If desired, top with grated cheese, sliced green onions, and more bacon, and enjoy! Freeze the leftovers in individual portions for a rainy day. 
RECIPE NOTES 
We recommend organic ingredients when feasible. 


Ad Feedback  

START RECIPE

START RECIPE

ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH 
ANNA STOCKWELL EPICURIOUS JANUARY 2018 
0/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (0) 

0% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWSBe the first to rate and review this recipe 
Cook This Now January Pork Tenderloin Sheet Pan Dinner / Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Food Styling by Anna Stockwell 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY CHELSEA KYLE, FOOD STYLING BY ANNA STOCKWELL 

An ancho chile rub serves double-duty in this dinner: it's the sweet and zesty rub for the tenderloin, and the seasoning for the roasted veg. 

SHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON TWITTERSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON PINTERESTSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
VEGETARIAN THREE-BEAN CHILI 

YIELD4 servings ACTIVE TIME40 TOTAL TIME45 
INGREDIENTS 
2 limes 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 teaspoon ancho chile powder 
1 teaspoon brown sugar 
2 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt, divided 
2 pork tenderloins (about 1 pound each)  
1 1/2 pounds brussels sprouts, trimmed, quartered 
1 large red onion, halved, cut into 1/2-inch-thick wedges 
1 delicata squash, halved lengthwise, seeded, sliced into 1/4-inch half moons 
4 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided 
3/4 cup sour cream 
1/2 cup cilantro, finely chopped, plus whole leaves for serving 
Flaky sea salt and freshly ground black pepper 
PREPARATION 
Place racks in top and center of oven: preheat to 425°F. Finely grate 2 tsp. lime zest into a small bowl. Stir in cumin, chile powder, brown sugar, and 2 tsp. salt. 
Toss brussels sprouts, onion, squash, 2 Tbsp. oil, and half of spiced salt on a rimmed baking sheet. Transfer to center rack in oven and roast 10 minutes. Toss and continue to roast until vegetables are browned and cooked through, 10–15 minutes more. 
Meanwhile, rub pork tenderloins with remaining spiced salt and heat remaining 2 Tbsp. oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Sear pork on 3 sides until lightly browned, about 3 minutes per side. Turn tenderloins onto remaining side, then transfer skillet to top rack of oven. Roast pork until an instant-read thermometer inserted into thickest part registers 140°F for medium-rare or 145°F for medium, 8–10 minutes (temperature will rise by about 10°F after cooking). Transfer pork to a cutting board and let rest 5 minutes before slicing. 
Whisk sour cream, 2 tsp. lime juice, 1/2 cup cilantro, and remaining 1/4 tsp. salt in a small bowl. Spoon some sauce onto plates, then arrange pork over. Top with cilantro leaves, flakey sea salt, and pepper. Serve vegetables and lime wedges alongside. 
ADD NOTES 
RELATED VIDEO 

AL INFO 
Calories620Carbohydrates37 g(12%)Fat31 g(48%)Protein53 g(106%)Saturated Fat9 g(43%)Sodium1482 mg(62%)Polyunsaturated Fat4 gFiber10 g(42%)Monounsaturated Fat15 gCholesterol162 mg(54%) 
per serving (4 servings)Powered by Edamam 


START RECIPE

CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS 
RHODA BOONE EPICURIOUS OCTOBER 2014 
3.5/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (23) 

70% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 
CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS / Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Prop Styling by Beatrice Chastka, Food Styling by Olivia Mack Anderson 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY CHELSEA KYLE, PROP STYLING BY BEATRICE CHASTKA, FOOD STYLING BY OLIVIA MACK ANDERSON 

This Asian-inspired dish incorporates two essential condiments: hot chile paste and fish sauce. The chile paste gives the pork a great kick, while the salty, pungent fish sauce brings out the umami in the Brussels sprouts. If you've never tried fish sauce, never fear. Just like Worcestershire sauce, fish sauce is a wonderful way to add depth of flavor to a dish (and you can find it in the Asian section of most supermarkets). The funkiness will vary from brand to brand, so taste as you go. 

SHARE “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” ON TWITTERSHARE “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” ON PINTERESTSHARE “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
YIELD4 servings ACTIVE TIME45 Minutes TOTAL TIME1 Hour 15 Minutes 
INGREDIENTS 
5 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil, such as grapeseed, divided 
2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 
1 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce 
3 garlic cloves, finely grated, divided 
2 teaspoons finely grated ginger 
1 1/2 tablespoon hot chile paste, such as sambal oelek 
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
2 pork tenderloins (each about 1 pound) 
2 tablespoons fish sauce 
2 tablespoons lime juice 
1/2 teaspoon honey 
1/2 to 1 red Thai chile pepper, very thinly sliced 
1 1/2 tablespoons finely chopped roasted unsalted peanuts 
1 1/2 pounds Brussels sprouts, trimmed and halved 
3/4 cup low-sodium chicken broth or water 
1 tablespoon butter 
1 tablespoon roughly chopped mint 
Special Equipment 
Large oven-safe skillet 
PREPARATION 
Preheat oven to 400°F. In a medium bowl, whisk together 2 tablespoons oil, vinegar, soy sauce, 2 grated garlic cloves, ginger, chile paste, and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Place pork in a large resealable plastic bag and pour marinade over, tossing to coat. Marinate for 30 minutes at room temperature. 
In a small bowl, whisk together remaining 1 grated garlic clove, fish sauce, lime, honey, chile pepper, peanuts, and 1 tablespoon water. Set aside. 
On a rimmed baking sheet, toss Brussels sprouts with 1 1/2 tablespoons oil and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Roast 15 minutes, then toss. Continue to roast until browned and cooked through, 10 to 15 minutes more. Transfer to a large bowl and toss with 2 tablespoons of the vinaigrette. Taste and add more vinaigrette, if desired.  
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet with 2 tablespoons oil over medium-high heat. Remove pork from marinade (reserve marinade) and sear on 3 sides until lightly browned, about 3 minutes per side. Turn tenderloins onto their fourth side and add broth to pan. Transfer skillet to oven and roast pork, basting occasionally, until internal temperature reaches 140°F for medium rare or 145°F for medium, 10 to 13 minutes more (temperature will rise by about 10 degrees after cooking). Transfer pork to cutting board and let rest 5 minutes, and reserve skillet. 
Add reserved marinade to the skillet and reduce over medium heat, stirring and scraping up the browned bits, until thickened to a pan sauce that coats the back of a spoon, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in butter. Taste and adjust seasoning. 
To serve, slice pork and drizzle with pan sauce. Spoon Brussels sprouts onto plate, sprinkle with mint, and serve additional pan sauce on side. 
Do Ahead 
Chile marinade and fish sauce vinaigrette can be made one day in advance. 
ADD NOTES 
RELATED VIDEO 
 
AL INFO 
Calories575Carbohydrates20 g(7%)Fat32 g(50%)Protein53 g(107%)Saturated Fat6 g(30%)Sodium1269 mg(53%)Polyunsaturated Fat6 gFiber7 g(29%)Monounsaturated Fat19 gCholesterol148 mg(49%) 
per serving (4 servings)Powered by Edamam 

START RECIPE

SHEET-PAN GRILLED CHEESE 
ANNA STOCKWELL EPICURIOUS AUGUST 2015 
3.5/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (7) 

71% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 

Two rimmed baking sheets and a hot oven mimic a giant panini press, making grilled cheese for a crowd a super quick and easy prospect. 

SHARE “SHEET-PAN GRILLED CHEESE” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “SHEET-PAN GRILLED CHEESE” ON TWITTERSHARE “SHEET-PAN GRILLED CHEESE” ON PINTERESTSHARE “SHEET-PAN GRILLED CHEESE” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “SHEET-PAN GRILLED CHEESE” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO SEPARATE AN EGG .
YIELD6 Servings ACTIVE TIME5 minutes TOTAL TIME20 minutes 
INGREDIENTS 
6 tablespoons mayonnaise 
12 slices soft white sandwich bread 
3 cups coarsely grated cheese (such as Monterey Jack, cheddar, mozzarella, or a mix: about 12 ounces) 
Kosher salt, freshly ground black pepper 
Special equipment: 
2 (13x18) rimmed baking sheets 
PREPARATION 
Position rimmed baking sheet on a rack in middle of oven and preheat to 450°F. Spread about 1 1/2 tsp. mayonnaise on one side of each slice of bread. Arrange 6 slices, mayo side down, on second inverted rimmed baking sheet. Mound 1/2 cup cheese in the center of each slice, season with salt and pepper, and top each with remaining bread slices, mayo side up. 
Using oven mitts, carefully remove preheated baking sheet from oven and place, rimmed side up, on top of sandwiches, then, holding both rimmed baking sheets together, return to oven. Bake until bread is browned and cheese is melted, about 15 minutes. Carefully remove baking sheets from oven and transfer sandwiches to a cutting board. Cut into pieces and serve. 


START RECIPE


OUR FAVORITE TEXAS BEEF CHILI 
RHODA BOONE EPICURIOUS SEPTEMBER 2014 
4/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (51) 

84% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 

This cowboy-style bowl of red is all about tender chunks of beef chuck and a five-chile-pepper purйe. True to Texas tradition, it has no tomatoes and no beans. The heat is customizable to your taste, and don't skip the masa harina: It helps to thicken the chili and imparts a wonderful earthy richness. This chili is best served a day after cooking.  

SHARE “OUR FAVORITE TEXAS BEEF CHILI” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “OUR FAVORITE TEXAS BEEF CHILI” ON TWITTERSHARE “OUR FAVORITE TEXAS BEEF CHILI” ON PINTERESTSHARE “OUR FAVORITE TEXAS BEEF CHILI” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “OUR FAVORITE TEXAS BEEF CHILI” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO SEPARATE AN EGG 

YIELD6–8 servings ACTIVE TIME1 Hour 15 Minutes TOTAL TIME4 Hours 15 Minutes 
INGREDIENTS 
4 ounces dried ancho chiles (about 9 chiles) 
2 ounces dried guajillo chiles (about 7 chiles) 
2 ounces dried pasilla chiles (about 10 chiles) 
2 ounces dried chipotle chiles (about 8 chiles) 
8 to 12 dried chiles de бrbol 
8 garlic cloves, unpeeled 
1 tablespoon plus 1 3/4 teaspoons kosher salt, divided 
1 3/4 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper, divided 
1 teaspoon honey 
7 tablespoons lard or vegetable oil 
6 pounds boneless beef chuck, trimmed and cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
2 cups finely chopped yellow onion 
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon ground cumin 
4 cups low-sodium beef broth 
2 teaspoons dried oregano 
2 tablespoons masa harina, recommended but optional (see Cooks' Note) 
2 tablespoons dark-brown sugar 
2 tablespoons red-wine vinegar 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper, plus more to taste 
Lime wedges, sour cream, chopped red or white onion, jalapeсo, and/or cilantro, for serving 
PREPARATION 
Heat a large, dry skillet over high heat and toast peppers in batches, until browned in spots but not burned, 30 to 45 seconds per side. Toast garlic cloves in their skins in the same skillet, tossing, until browned in spots, about 3 minutes. 
If chiles are dusty, rub them gently with a damp paper towel. Cut peppers in half lengthwise: remove stems and seeds. Place chiles de бrbol in a small heatproof bowl. Place all other chiles in a large heatproof bowl. Pour very hot water over chiles until submerged and let soak for 45 minutes, placing a plate on top of chiles to keep them submerged if necessary 
Peel garlic cloves and place cloves in blender. Add all the soaked chiles except for the chiles de бrbol along with 4 cups of the soaking liquid. Add 1 tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, and honey. Purйe until smooth. Taste and add chiles de бrbol to your preference (start with 4 for mild or 6 for medium heat: add additional to taste if you would like more heat). 
Strain the purйe through a fine-mesh sieve into a large bowl, using a rubber spatula to press the purйe through. Set puree aside. 
In a large Dutch oven or pot over medium-high heat, melt 2 tablespoons of lard. Add 1/3 of the beef, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper and lightly brown the meat, 6 to 8 minutes per batch. Transfer to a bowl, reserve, and repeat with remaining 2 batches of beef, seasoning each with 1/2 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. 
Lower the heat to medium and add 1 more tablespoon lard. Cook the onion with 1/4 teaspoon salt until soft, stirring, about 5 minutes. Add cumin and cook, stirring, 1 minute more. Add the chile purйe and bring to a simmer. Cook, stirring, until purйe has lost its raw chile flavor, about 15 minutes. Add 4 cups broth, oregano, and the beef. Combine the masa harina with 2 cups water and add to the mixture. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook, uncovered, until meat is tender and broth is thickened, about 3 hours. 
Add sugar and vinegar 1 tablespoon at a time, tasting to see if the chili needs more. Add cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste. Allow the chili to sit at least an hour and up to overnight to allow the flavors to meld. Serve with lime wedges, sour cream, onion, jalapeсo, and/or cilantro. 
Cooks' Note 
Masa harina is a ground corn flour used for making corn tortillas, tamales, arepas, and other Latin American dishes. Find it in the Latin or international-foods section of the supermarket. 


START RECIPE

CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS 
RHODA BOONE EPICURIOUS OCTOBER 2014 
3.5/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (23) 

70% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 
CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS / Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Prop Styling by Beatrice Chastka, Food Styling by Olivia Mack Anderson 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY CHELSEA KYLE, PROP STYLING BY BEATRICE CHASTKA, FOOD STYLING BY OLIVIA MACK ANDERSON 

This Asian-inspired dish incorporates two essential condiments: hot chile paste and fish sauce. The chile paste gives the pork a great kick, while the salty, pungent fish sauce brings out the umami in the Brussels sprouts. If you've never tried fish sauce, never fear. Just like Worcestershire sauce, fish sauce is a wonderful way to add depth of flavor to a dish (and you can find it in the Asian section of most supermarkets). The funkiness will vary from brand to brand, so taste as you go. 

SHARE “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” ON TWITTERSHARE “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” ON PINTERESTSHARE “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “CHILE-MARINATED PORK WITH VIETNAMESE BRUSSELS SPROUTS” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO SEPARATE AN EGG 

YIELD4 servings ACTIVE TIME45 Minutes TOTAL TIME1 Hour 15 Minutes 
INGREDIENTS 
5 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil, such as grapeseed, divided 
2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 
1 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce 
3 garlic cloves, finely grated, divided 
2 teaspoons finely grated ginger 
1 1/2 tablespoon hot chile paste, such as sambal oelek 
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
2 pork tenderloins (each about 1 pound) 
2 tablespoons fish sauce 
2 tablespoons lime juice 
1/2 teaspoon honey 
1/2 to 1 red Thai chile pepper, very thinly sliced 
1 1/2 tablespoons finely chopped roasted unsalted peanuts 
1 1/2 pounds Brussels sprouts, trimmed and halved 
3/4 cup low-sodium chicken broth or water 
1 tablespoon roughly chopped mint 
Special Equipment 
Large oven-safe skillet 
PREPARATION 
Preheat oven to 400°F. In a medium bowl, whisk together 2 tablespoons oil, vinegar, soy sauce, 2 grated garlic cloves, ginger, chile paste, and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Place pork in a large resealable plastic bag and pour marinade over, tossing to coat. Marinate for 30 minutes at room temperature. 
In a small bowl, whisk together remaining 1 grated garlic clove, fish sauce, lime, honey, chile pepper, peanuts, and 1 tablespoon water. Set aside. 
On a rimmed baking sheet, toss Brussels sprouts with 1 1/2 tablespoons oil and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Roast 15 minutes, then toss. Continue to roast until browned and cooked through, 10 to 15 minutes more. Transfer to a large bowl and toss with 2 tablespoons of the vinaigrette. Taste and add more vinaigrette, if desired. 
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet with 2 tablespoons oil over medium-high heat. Remove pork from marinade (reserve marinade) and sear on 3 sides until lightly browned, about 3 minutes per side. Turn tenderloins onto their fourth side and add broth to pan. Transfer skillet to oven and roast pork, basting occasionally, until internal temperature reaches 140°F for medium rare or 145°F for medium, 10 to 13 minutes more (temperature will rise by about 10 degrees after cooking). Transfer pork to cutting board and let rest 5 minutes, and reserve skillet. 
Add reserved marinade to the skillet and reduce over medium heat, stirring and scraping up the browned bits, until thickened to a pan sauce that coats the back of a spoon, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in butter. Taste and adjust seasoning. 
To serve, slice pork and drizzle with pan sauce. Spoon Brussels sprouts onto plate, sprinkle with mint, and serve additional pan sauce on side. 
Do Ahead 
Chile marinade and fish sauce vinaigrette can be made one day in advance. 


START RECIPE

HOMEMADE HOT CHOCOLATE MIX 
KATHERINE SACKS EPICURIOUS JANUARY 2016 
3.5/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (17) 

100% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 
Hot Chocolate- Inset / Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Prop Styling by Alex Brannian, Food Styling by Katherine Sacks 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY CHELSEA KYLE, PROP STYLING BY ALEX BRANNIAN, FOOD STYLING BY KATHERINE SACKS 

This hot chocolate mix is made with a blend of chocolate and cocoa powder for a rich, decadent flavor and creamy texture. For an even more luscious mug, use equal parts heavy cream and whole milk. 

SHARE “HOMEMADE HOT CHOCOLATE MIX” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “HOMEMADE HOT CHOCOLATE MIX” ON TWITTERSHARE “HOMEMADE HOT CHOCOLATE MIX” ON PINTERESTSHARE “HOMEMADE HOT CHOCOLATE MIX” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “HOMEMADE HOT CHOCOLATE MIX” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO MAKE GARLIC PASTE 

YIELD8 servings (1 1/2 cups mix) ACTIVE TIME10 minutes TOTAL TIME10 minutes 
INGREDIENTS 
For the hot chocolate mix: 
3/4 cup powdered sugar 
1/2 cup high-quality cocoa powder 
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 
1/8 teaspoon fine sea salt 
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise 
For the hot chocolate: 
1 cup whole milk 
Whipped cream, marshmallows, and cocoa powder (for serving) 
PREPARATION 
Make the hot chocolate mix: 
Combine powdered sugar, cocoa powder, chocolate, cornstarch, and sea salt in a food processor. Scrape in vanilla seeds: discard pod. Blend until mixture is smooth and powdery, about 1 minute. 
Make the hot chocolate: 
Bring milk to a simmer in a small saucepan over medium heat. Whisk in 3 Tbsp. hot chocolate mix and cook, whisking occasionally, until mixture returns to a simmer and hot chocolate mix is dissolved and thickens slightly, 1-2 minutes.
Transfer hot chocolate to a mug. Top with whipped cream and marshmallows and dust with cocoa powder. 
Do Ahead 
Hot chocolate mix can be made 2 months ahead. Store in an airtight container at room temperature, or freeze up to 3 months. 


START RECIPE


MA-PO TOFU 
GOURMET JUNE 2000 
3.5/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (79) 

95% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 
ma-po-tofu.jpg 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
This fiery Sichuan classic is named for the pockmarked (po) wife (ma) who supposedly invented it at her husband's restaurant. I've made a version of it for years. At the culinary schools I attended in Chengdu recently, their technique of poaching the tofu, prior to stir-frying, to freshen and tenderize it was new to me, as was the wonderful effect of a lavish sprinkling of Sichuan-peppercorn powder. 

SHARE “MA-PO TOFU” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “MA-PO TOFU” ON TWITTERSHARE “MA-PO TOFU” ON PINTERESTSHARE “MA-PO TOFU” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “MA-PO TOFU” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO HONE A KNIFE 

YIELDMakes 3 or 4 main course servings 
INGREDIENTS 
For sauce 
1/4 cup chicken broth 
2 tablespoons hot bean paste 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 
Additive-free kosher salt to taste 
1 lb regular or soft (not silken) tofu, drained and cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons corn, peanut, or canola oil 
1/2 lb ground pork shoulder (preferably 75% lean) 
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon finely minced garlic 
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon finely minced peeled fresh ginger 
1 tablespoon cornstarch dissolved in 2 tablespoons water 
1 1/2 teaspoons Japanese sesame oil 
1/2 to 1 teaspoon toasted Sichuan-peppercorn powder 
3 tablespoons thinly sliced scallion 
Accompaniment: steamed rice 
PREPARATION 
Make sauce: 
Stir together broth, bean paste, soy sauce, and kosher salt. Set aside. 
Poach tofu: 
Slide tofu into a saucepan of simmering water and keep at a bare simmer while stir-frying rest of dish. 
Stir-fry pork: 
Heat a wok or large heavy skillet over high heat until hot and add 1 1/2 tablespoons corn oil, swirling to coat. Add pork and stir-fry, breaking up lumps and adding remaining 1/2 tablespoon corn oil if meat sticks, until no longer pink. Add garlic and ginger and stir-fry over moderate heat until very fragrant, about 2 minutes. 
Finish stir-fry: 
Stir reserved sauce, then add to pork and bring to a simmer. Drain tofu in a large sieve and slide into sauce, stirring gently. 
Stir cornstarch mixture and add to stir-fry. Bring to a boil, stirring gently, and cook until thickened and glossy, about 15 seconds. 
Turn off heat and sprinkle with sesame oil, Sichuan-peppercorn powder to taste, and 2 tablespoons scallion. Stir once or twice, then serve sprinkled with remaining tablespoon scallion. 


START RECIPE

LAMB LARB 
CLAIRE SAFFITZ BON APPЙTIT FEBRUARY 2017 
4/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (2) 

100% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 
Lamb Larb / Photo by Gentl & Hyers 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY GENTL & HYERS 

Larb is hailed as the national dish of Laos. Traditionally the salad starts with extremely finely chopped lean meat or fish and is seasoned with lime juice, chiles, fish sauce, and toasted ground rice. This recipe calls for ground lamb, a fattier protein than what’s usually used, and subs ground peanuts as a nod to the texture of the rice. 

SHARE “LAMB LARB” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “LAMB LARB” ON TWITTERSHARE “LAMB LARB” ON PINTERESTSHARE “LAMB LARB” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “LAMB LARB” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
VEGETARIAN THREE-BEAN CHILI 

YIELDServes 4 
INGREDIENTS 
1 lemongrass stalk 
4 garlic cloves 
1/2 bunch cilantro, stems and leaves separated, stems coarsely chopped, plus sprigs for serving 
1 large shallot, coarsely chopped 
4 red Thai chiles, divided 
1/2 cup salted, roasted peanuts 
3 tablespoons fresh lime juice 
1 tablespoon (or more) fish sauce 
1 1/2 teaspoons demerara sugar or dark brown sugar 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1 pound ground lamb (at least 10% fat) 
Cooked white rice, Bibb lettuce leaves, sliced cucumber, lime wedges, and mint sprigs (for serving) 
PREPARATION 
Remove tough outer layers from lemongrass, cut 4 piece from bulb end, thinly slice, save remaining lemongrass for another use. Pulse lemongrass and garlic in a food processor until finely chopped. Add cilantro stems (reserve leaves for another use), shallot, and 1–2 Thai chiles, depending on how hot you like it, and pulse until finely chopped. Transfer to a large bowl: set aside. Pulse peanuts in food processor until coarsely ground and transfer to a small bowl: set aside. Thinly slice remaining chiles: set aside for serving. 
Whisk lime juice, fish sauce, and demerara sugar in a small bowl: set lime dressing aside. 
Heat oil in a large skillet, preferably cast iron, over high. Add lamb to skillet and press into a single flat layer with a flexible spatula. Cook, undisturbed, until underside is browned and crisp around the edges, 5–7 minutes. Use spatula to break patty into smaller pieces and turn. Cook pieces on the other side until edges are crisp and meat is cooked through, about 5 minutes. Transfer lamb to a medium bowl with a slotted spoon, then use spoon to break up meat into small pieces. 
Pour off all but 3 Tbsp. fat from skillet and set skillet over medium heat. Cook lemongrass mixture, stirring often, until fragrant and starting to stick to skillet, about 3 minutes. Add reserved lime dressing and peanuts and return reserved lamb to skillet. Toss until meat is coated. Remove from heat and season with more fish sauce, if desired. 
Serve larb with rice, lettuce, cucumber, limes, mint sprigs, cilantro sprigs, and reserved chiles for making lettuce cups.


START RECIPE

3-INGREDIENT KOREAN GRILLED CHICKEN WINGS WITH SCALLION 
RHODA BOONE EPICURIOUS JUNE 2017 
4/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (1) 

100% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 

In Epi's 3-Ingredient Recipes series, we show you how to make great food with just three ingredients (plus staples like oil, salt, and pepper). A quick toss in sweet, not-too-spicy Korean red pepper sauce makes these wings irresistible, while sliced scallion adds a fresh finish. 

SHARE “3-INGREDIENT KOREAN GRILLED CHICKEN WINGS WITH SCALLION” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “3-INGREDIENT KOREAN GRILLED CHICKEN WINGS WITH SCALLION” ON TWITTERSHARE “3-INGREDIENT KOREAN GRILLED CHICKEN WINGS WITH SCALLION” ON PINTERESTSHARE “3-INGREDIENT KOREAN GRILLED CHICKEN WINGS WITH SCALLION” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “3-INGREDIENT KOREAN GRILLED CHICKEN WINGS WITH SCALLION” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO MAKE GARLIC PASTE 

YIELD4 servings ACTIVE TIME30 minutes TOTAL TIME30 minutes (longer if cooking in batches) 
INGREDIENTS 
2 pounds chicken wings (flats and drumettes attached or separated) 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, plus more 
1/2 cup gochujang (Korean hot pepper paste) 
1 scallion, thinly sliced on the bias 
PREPARATION 
Pat wings very dry with paper towels. Toss wings, oil, 1 tsp. salt, and 1/2 tsp. pepper in a large bowl to coat. 
Prepare a grill for two zones, medium and medium-high, or heat a grill pan over medium. Working in batches if necessary, grill wings over medium heat, turning occasionally, until skin is starting to brown and fat is rendering, about 12 minutes. Move wings to medium-high zone of grill or increase heat under grill pan to medium-high. Cook wings, moving to a cooler section of grill or reducing heat if they start to burn, until cooked through, an instant-read thermometer inserted into the flesh but not touching the bone registers 165°F, and skin is crisp and lightly charred, 5–10 minutes. 
Meanwhile, whisk gochujang and 1/4 cup hot water in a large bowl. 
Transfer wings to bowl with gochujang and toss to coat. Transfer to a platter. Top with scallions, season with salt and pepper, and serve immediately. 
Cooks' Note 
Gochujang can be found in Asian food markets or online. 


START RECIPE

CHOCOLATE CHIP, PEANUT BUTTER, AND BANANA COOKIES 
AUDREY JOHNS JANUARY 2018 DETOX WEEK 
3/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (1) 

100% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 
Chocolate Chip, Peanut Butter, and Banana Cookies / Photo by Carl Kravats 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY CARL KRAVATS 

These yummy vegan cookies are free of butter, added sugar, and even eggs—the peanut butter and applesauce hold them together. But trust me when I say you won’t miss the sugar. The sweet banana and abundance of chocolate more than make up for it. 

SHARE “CHOCOLATE CHIP, PEANUT BUTTER, AND BANANA COOKIES” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “CHOCOLATE CHIP, PEANUT BUTTER, AND BANANA COOKIES” ON TWITTERSHARE “CHOCOLATE CHIP, PEANUT BUTTER, AND BANANA COOKIES” ON PINTERESTSHARE “CHOCOLATE CHIP, PEANUT BUTTER, AND BANANA COOKIES” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “CHOCOLATE CHIP, PEANUT BUTTER, AND BANANA COOKIES” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
DOUBLE CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH PEPPERMINT CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

YIELDMakes 24 cookies 
INGREDIENTS 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1 banana, thinly sliced 
2 tablespoons all-natural peanut butter 
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats 
2/3 cup semisweet chocolate chips 
PREPARATION 
Preheat the oven to 350°F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper. 
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, salt, and baking soda. 3. In a large bowl, mash together the banana, peanut butter, applesauce, and vanilla with the back of a fork. Whisk in 1/3 cup water, scrape the sides, and mix well. 
Add the flour mixture to the banana mixture and stir together until just combined. Stir in the oats and chocolate chips. 
Use a small ice cream scoop or spoon to drop ping pong ball–size dollops of cookie dough onto the prepared baking sheets. They don’t spread much, so they only need 1/2 inch of space between the cookies. Bake for 10 minutes, or until lightly browned on the bottom. Let them cool on the baking sheet for 10 minutes before devouring. You can freeze baked cookies in a gallon-size freezer bag for up to 3 months. 
Per serving (1 cookie): calories 79: fat 3 g: saturated fat 1 g: fiber: 1.5 g: protein 2 g: carbohydrates 13.5 g: sugar 4.5 g 
Detox Week 

From Lose Weight by Eating: Detox Week — Twice the Weight Loss in Half the Time With 130 Recipes for a Crave-Worthy Cleanse © 2017 by Audrey Johns. Reprinted with permission from William Morrow Cookbooks, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers. 

Buy the full book from HarperCollins or from Amazon. 


START RECIPE

MOLTEN CHOC-CHUNK BROWNIES 
DONNA HAY JANUARY 2018 BASICS TO BRILLIANCE 
0/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (0) 

0% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWSBe the first to rate and review this recipe 
molten-chocolate-chunk-brownies-recipe-HC-011818.jpg 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
If you’re not serving the brownie warm, let it cool in the tin, then turn out and slice into squares. It’ll continue to set in the tin, but stay soft and fudgy in the center. The two types of sugar in these brownies work their magic in different ways. Caster sugar lends sweetness and helps create a smooth and crispy top. Brown sugar adds to the rich, moist center. 

SHARE “MOLTEN CHOC-CHUNK BROWNIES” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “MOLTEN CHOC-CHUNK BROWNIES” ON TWITTERSHARE “MOLTEN CHOC-CHUNK BROWNIES” ON PINTERESTSHARE “MOLTEN CHOC-CHUNK BROWNIES” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “MOLTEN CHOC-CHUNK BROWNIES” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
VEGETARIAN THREE-BEAN CHILI 

YIELDMakes 16 
INGREDIENTS 
1 cup (150g) plain (all-purpose) flour 
3/4 cup (75g) cocoa 
3/4 cup (130g) brown sugar 
1 1/3 cups (290g) caster (superfine) sugar 
175g unsalted butter, melted and cooled 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
3 eggs 
125g dark chocolate, chopped 
PREPARATION 
Place the flour, cocoa, both the sugars, the butter, vanilla and eggs in a large bowl and mix until smooth. 
Add the chocolate and stir to combine. 
Preheat oven to 160°C (325°F). 
Lightly grease a 20cm square tin and line with non-stick baking paper. 
Spread the mixture into the tin. 
Bake for 50 minutes to 1 hour or until the brownie is set. 
Allow to cool in the tin for 5 minutes before slicing into squares and serving warm, or allow to cool completely in the tin. 
Note 
The brownie is ready when the top feels set to the touch. Brownies will keep in an airtight container for up to 1 week. 


START RECIPE

ROASTED ACORN SQUASH AND HONEY 
ART SMITH JANUARY 2018 ART SMITH'S HEALTHY COMFORT 
0/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (0) 

0% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWSBe the first to rate and review this recipe 
roasted-acorn-squash-and-honey-recipe-HC-011818.jpg / Stephen Hamilton 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
STEPHEN HAMILTON 

Few side dishes are better on a cool fall evening than roasted acorn squash sweetened with just a little honey and made even mellower with nutmeg and fresh sage leaves. When I catch a whiff of it coming from the oven, I feel warm and comforted, and you will, too. 

SHARE “ROASTED ACORN SQUASH AND HONEY” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “ROASTED ACORN SQUASH AND HONEY” ON TWITTERSHARE “ROASTED ACORN SQUASH AND HONEY” ON PINTERESTSHARE “ROASTED ACORN SQUASH AND HONEY” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “ROASTED ACORN SQUASH AND HONEY” 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO HONE A KNIFE 

INGREDIENTS 
2 acorn squash (about 1 pound each) 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
1/4 teaspoon grated fresh nutmeg 
2 tablespoons honey 
8 sage leaves, chopped 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
PREPARATION 
Preheat the oven to 350°F. Split the squash in half and scrape out the seeds with a spoon. Cut the squash halves into quarters and place in a mixing bowl, leaving the skin on the squash sections. Toss the squash with the olive oil, nutmeg, honey, and sage leaves. Lay the squash pieces, cut sides down, on a baking sheet. Bake for 30 to 40 minutes or until the squash flesh begins to turn golden brown and is tender. Season the squash with salt and pepper. 
Arrange the squash on a serving platter. 


START RECIPE

BEEF SHORT RIBS SATAY (SATAY KRA-TOOG NGUA) 
JAMES SYHABOUT JANUARY 2018 HAWKER FARE 
0/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (0) 

0% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWSBe the first to rate and review this recipe 
Beef Short Ribs Satay (Satay Kra-Toog Ngua) / Photo by Eric Wolfinger 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY ERIC WOLFINGER 

When the Korean supermarket opened in our Oakland neighborhood it was a godsend. Like the chef she is, Moms scoured the butcher counter for product to play with, and ended up bringing home Korean- style short ribs, something foreign to Thai and Lao cooking. At the restaurant, she made satay short ribs as a special. They had a built-in skewer: the bones. Grilled medium or medium rare, the delicious meat pulls from the bones, and you salivate even more as your teeth work to chew the gristle, a plus with most Asian meats. I put these on the menu at Hawker Fare, and just like back in Moms’s day, people love them. 

SHARE “BEEF SHORT RIBS SATAY *(SATAY KRA-TOOG NGUA)*” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “BEEF SHORT RIBS SATAY *(SATAY KRA-TOOG NGUA)*” ON TWITTERSHARE “BEEF SHORT RIBS SATAY *(SATAY KRA-TOOG NGUA)*” ON PINTERESTSHARE “BEEF SHORT RIBS SATAY *(SATAY KRA-TOOG NGUA)*” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “BEEF SHORT RIBS SATAY *(SATAY KRA-TOOG NGUA)*”
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
DOUBLE CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH PEPPERMINT CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

YIELD4–6 servings 
INGREDIENTS 
Marinade: 
1/4 cup (40 grams) thinly sliced lemongrass 
1/8 cup (25 grams) peeled and sliced fresh ginger 
1/4 cup (40 grams) sliced shallots 
5 peeled medium garlic cloves (15 grams) 
2 tablespoons (18 grams) canola oil 
2 tablespoons (30 grams) oyster sauce 
1 tablespoon (12 grams) fish sauce 
1/4 teaspoon (1 gram) turmeric power 
1/3 cup (87 grams) unsweetened coconut milk 
1 pound (454 grams) beef short ribs, cut Korean kalbi style, 1/4-inch thick 
For the baste: 
1/3 cup (87 grams) unsweetened coconut milk 
Kosher salt, to taste 
For serving: 
1 cup Satay Peanut Sauce 
1 cup Cucumber Ajat 
PREPARATION 
In a mortar, combine the lemongrass, ginger, shallots, and garlic: pound to a semismooth paste. Stir in the oil, oyster sauce, fish sauce, turmeric, and the 1/3 cup coconut milk and mix well. Reserve 1/4 cup of this mixture and set aside. Transfer the rest to a large mixing bowl and add the short ribs. Toss the ribs to coat, cover the bowl, and let them marinate in the refrigerator for 24 hours (you can get away with marinating for 6 hours at a minimum, though the satay will have less depth of flavor). 
When it is time to cook the ribs, preheat your grill until very hot. I highly recommend cooking satay on an outdoor grill over charcoal briquettes, but gas will suffice (cook them indoors in a grill pan only if you have a very good exhaust system, since they generate a lot of smoke). Make the baste by mixing the reserved 1/4 cup marinade with the 1/3 cup coconut milk. Grill the ribs for about 2 minutes on each side (a little more or less, depending on how you like your meat). As they cook, brush the ribs with the basting liquid and a sprinkling of salt. Let the cooked ribs rest for 2 minutes before serving with the satay peanut sauce and cucumber ajat. Accompany with jasmine or sticky rice or slices of toasted white bread. 

START RECIPE

ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH 
ANNA STOCKWELL EPICURIOUS JANUARY 2018 
0/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (0)

0% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWSBe the first to rate and review this recipe 
Cook This Now January Pork Tenderloin Sheet Pan Dinner / Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Food Styling by Anna Stockwell 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY CHELSEA KYLE, FOOD STYLING BY ANNA STOCKWELL 

An ancho chile rub serves double-duty in this dinner: it's the sweet and zesty rub for the tenderloin, and the seasoning for the roasted veg. 

SHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON TWITTERSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON PINTERESTSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH”
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO SEPARATE AN EGG 

YIELD4 servings ACTIVE TIME40 TOTAL TIME45 
INGREDIENTS 
2 limes 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 teaspoon ancho chile powder 
1 teaspoon brown sugar 
2 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt, divided 
2 pork tenderloins (about 1 pound each) 
1 1/2 pounds brussels sprouts, trimmed, quartered 
1 large red onion, halved, cut into 1/2-inch-thick wedges 
1 delicata squash, halved lengthwise, seeded, sliced into 1/4-inch half moons 
4 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided 
3/4 cup sour cream 
1/2 cup cilantro, finely chopped, plus whole leaves for serving 
Flaky sea salt and freshly ground black pepper 
PREPARATION 
Place racks in top and center of oven: preheat to 425°F. Finely grate 2 tsp. lime zest into a small bowl. Stir in cumin, chile powder, brown sugar, and 2 tsp. salt. 
Toss brussels sprouts, onion, squash, 2 Tbsp. oil, and half of spiced salt on a rimmed baking sheet. Transfer to center rack in oven and roast 10 minutes. Toss and continue to roast until vegetables are browned and cooked through, 10–15 minutes more. 
Meanwhile, rub pork tenderloins with remaining spiced salt and heat remaining 2 Tbsp. oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Sear pork on 3 sides until lightly browned, about 3 minutes per side. Turn tenderloins onto remaining side, then transfer skillet to top rack of oven. Roast pork until an instant-read thermometer inserted into thickest part registers 140°F for medium-rare or 145°F for medium, 8–10 minutes (temperature will rise by about 10°F after cooking). Transfer pork to a cutting board and let rest 5 minutes before slicing. 
Whisk sour cream, 2 tsp. lime juice, 1/2 cup cilantro, and remaining 1/4 tsp. salt in a small bowl. Spoon some sauce onto plates, then arrange pork over. Top with cilantro leaves, flakey sea salt, and pepper. Serve vegetables and lime wedges alongside. 

START RECIPE

STUFFED ONIONS WITH SPICED LAMB AND POMEGRANATE 
ORI MENASHE EPICURIOUS SEPTEMBER 2014 BESTIA: LOS ANGELES 
4/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (5) 

100% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 
tuffed Onions with Lamb and Pomegranate 6 x 4 / Photo by Linda Pugliese, food styling by Anna Hampton 
acebook 
Pinterest 
HOTO BY LINDA PUGLIESE, FOOD STYLING BY ANNA HAMPTON 

enashe advises against overstuffing the onions with the filling: the rice expands, gradually increasing the size of the onions as they cook. Feel free to swap in ground beef for the lamb. 

HARE “STUFFED ONIONS WITH SPICED LAMB AND POMEGRANATE” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “STUFFED ONIONS WITH SPICED LAMB AND POMEGRANATE” ON TWITTERSHARE “STUFFED ONIONS WITH SPICED LAMB AND POMEGRANATE” ON PINTERESTSHARE “STUFFED ONIONS WITH SPICED LAMB AND POMEGRANATE” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “STUFFED ONIONS WITH SPICED LAMB AND POMEGRANATE”
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
DOUBLE CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH PEPPERMINT CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

YIELD4–6 servings ACTIVE TIME45 minutes TOTAL TIME3 hours 
INGREDIENTS 
2 large Spanish onions (1 pound), peeled and left whole 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for drizzling 
1/4 pound ground lamb 
1 1/2 oil-packed anchovies, drained, patted dry, and finely chopped 
1/2 tablespoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
3/4 cup raw jasmine rice 
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 pinch ground nutmeg 
3 cups low-sodium chicken broth, divided 
3 tablespoons pomegranate molasses, divided 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley, plus more for garnish 
1 tablespoon chopped cilantro, plus more for garnish 
3 tablespoons tomato paste 
1/4 cup pomegranate seeds, for garnish 
PREPARATION 
Boil the onions: 
Fill a medium pot with enough water to cover the onions and bring to a boil. Add whole onions, return to a boil, and cook until tender, 20 to 25 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, remove onions to a colander, drain, and let stand until cool enough to handle. Cut a 1/2-inch wedge from the outside to the core of each onion, then carefully peel 5 outer layers from each onion and reserve: chop the onion wedges and core, and reserve separately. 
Make the stuffing: 
In a medium skillet, heat the oil over medium-high. Add the chopped onion and cook, stirring, until golden, 4 to 5 minutes. Add the lamb, anchovies, salt, and pepper and cook, breaking meat up with a wooden spoon, until lamb is no longer pink, 5 to 6 minutes. Add the rice and cook, stirring, until translucent, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the spices and 1 cup broth: cook, stirring, until evaporated, 4 to 5 minutes. Transfer lamb mixture to a rimmed baking sheet and cool slightly: cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes. Remove from the refrigerator, transfer to a bowl, and add parsley, cilantro, and 1 tablespoon pomegranate molasses.
Stuff and bake the onions: 
Preheat the oven to 250°F. In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining broth and pomegranate molasses with the tomato paste. Wrap one onion layer around about 2 to 3 tablespoons filling and arrange seam-side down in a 2-quart shallow baking dish. Repeat with remaining onion layers and filling. 
Pour liquid over stuffed onions, cover with foil, and roast until tender and some of the liquid is absorbed, 2 hours (you can roast for up to 3 additional hours for softer, more savory onions). Remove from oven and uncover. Preheat broiler and broil until golden brown, 1 to 2 minutes. Let cool for 10 minutes. To serve, drizzle with oil, and garnish with pomegranate seeds, parsley, and cilantro. 


START RECIPE

Brown Butter Snickerdoodles 
Brown Butter Snickerdoodles delimTIT
Why has it taken me so long to try making my very favorite cookie the snickerdoodle with brown butter? I recently saw a recipe for brown butter snickderdooles on A Southern Grace that had me drooling and I couldn’t wait to bake some cookies! I have a feeling this will be my go-to snickderdoodle recipe from now on. Seriously. The brown butter gives such an amazing flavor and nuttiness to these delicious cookies. My son had a friend over and the boys and my daughter all thought these cookies were AMAZING and VERY blog worthy. I agree! I love that these brown butter snickerdoodles are soft on the inside and crisp on the edges and they taste incredible dipped in ice cold milk. YUM! 

Brown Butter Snickerdoodles 

In a medium saucepan, add 1 stick of unsalted butter and melt over medium heat. Stir the butter often once it has melted. It will start to foam at the top and you will see the color of the butter change to brown. This process only takes about 5 minutes and the turn happens quickly. Immediately remove the pan from the heat and allow to cool for a few minutes. Pour the brown butter & and all of the brown bits into a small bowl and place into the refrigerator for 15 minutes, to cool completely. 

Brown Butter Snickerdoodles 

Combine the flour with the baking soda, cream of tartar, and salt until well mixed. 

Cream the white sugar and egg with a hand mixer. Add the cooled brown butter and brown sugar then beat until creamy. Slowly add the flour mixture to the butter mixture until mixed thoroughly. Place into the refrigerator for 60 minutes to harden. 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and line a baking tray with a silpat mat. 

Combine the 2 tablespoons of white sugar with the cinnamon and mix well. Roll the dough in a small ball then toss in the cinnamon/sugar mixture. Place on the silpat mat lined baking sheet then lightly press the dough with your hand to slightly flatten. Place dough 2 inches apart on the baking sheet. 

Brown Butter Snickerdoodles 

Place the baking tray into the oven and bake for 8-9 minutes. Side Note: If you like crisper cookies, cook for 9-11 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool on the baking tray for a few minutes before transferring them to a cooling rack. Serve with ice cold milk. Enjoy! 

Brown Butter Snickerdoodles 

BROWN BUTTER SNICKERDOODLES 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
1 hour 25 mins 
Cook time 
9 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 34 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking / Inspired by A Southern Grace 
Recipe type: Cookie 
Serves: 18 cookies 
INGREDIENTS 

Dough: 
Ѕ cup unsalted butter, softened 
1Ѕ cups flour 
Ѕ tsp baking soda 
ј tsp cream of tartar 
ј tsp salt 
Ѕ cup white sugar 
1 large egg 
? cup brown sugar, packed 

For Rolling: 
2 tbsp white sugar 
1 tsp cinnamon 
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a medium saucepan, add 1 stick of unsalted butter and melt over medium heat. 
Stir the butter often once it has melted. It will start to foam at the top and you will see the color of the butter change to brown. 
This process only takes about 5 minutes and the turn happens quickly. 
Immediately remove the pan from the heat and allow to cool for a few minutes. 
Pour the brown butter & and all of the brown bits into a small bowl and place into the refrigerator for 15 minutes, to cool completely. 
Combine the flour with the baking soda, cream of tartar, and salt until well mixed. 
Cream the white sugar and egg with a hand mixer. 
Add the cooled brown butter and brown sugar then beat until creamy. 
Slowly add the flour mixture to the butter mixture until mixed thoroughly. 
Place into the refrigerator for 60 minutes to harden. 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and line a baking tray with a silpat mat. 
Combine the 2 tablespoons of white sugar with the cinnamon and mix well. 
Roll the dough in a small ball then toss in the cinnamon/sugar mixture. 
Place on the silpat mat lined baking sheet then lightly press the dough with your hand to slightly flatten. 
Place dough 2 inches apart on the baking sheet. 
Place the baking tray into the oven and bake for 8-9 minutes. 
Side Note: If you like crisper cookies, cook for 9-11 minutes.  
Remove from the oven and let cool on the baking tray for a few minutes before transferring them to a cooling rack. 
Serve with ice cold milk. Enjoy! 

START RECIPE

Chocolate Covered Strawberry Brownies 
Chocolate Covered Strawberry Brownies 

I had some rather tart strawberries in the fridge and my kids weren’t too interested in eating them plain, and if I am honest, neither was I. When thinking about this week’s school lunch treat, I decided it should include some fresh strawberries. I searched online for awhile until I saw a recipe for chocolate covered strawberry brownies and my search ended because I knew my entire family would absolutely love them. I adapted the recipe by adding a little drizzled white chocolate too just because I thought it would be delicious and pretty. These brownies were fun to make, looked beautiful, and tasted even better. My kids and husband were absolutely thrilled with this fun and tasty dessert and so was I. 

Chocolate Covered Strawberry Brownies 

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line an 8Ч8 baking dish with parchment paper. Coat with cooking spray. 

Using a double boiler, or a medium heatproof bowl set over a pan of almost simmering water, melt the semi sweet chocolate chips and butter together, stirring occasionally until smooth. Whisk in the cocoa powder until well combined. Set aside to cool. 

Whisk together the eggs, sugar, vanilla extract, and salt in a medium bowl until well combined. Gradually whisk the warm chocolate mixture into the egg mixture, then stir in the flour until just combined. 

Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish making sure to spread into the corners and make it level. 

Place into the oven and bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until lightly puffed and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Cool on a wire rack to room temperature, about 2 hours. 

Chocolate Covered Strawberry Brownies 

Halve or quarter the strawberries depending on their size then place them on a towel until needed. You don’t want wet strawberries on your brownies! 

When the brownies have completely cooled, spread the dried fresh strawberries evenly over them. 

Chocolate Covered Strawberry Brownies 

Combine the dark chocolate melting wafers with 1 teaspoon of coconut oil together in a double boiler until melted. Drizzle evenly over the strawberries. Melt the white chocolate wafers in the double boiler with the remaining 1/2 teaspoon of coconut oil. Drizzle back and forth over the top of the brownies. Place into the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. Slice and serve. Enjoy. Store leftovers sealed in a covered container in the refrigerator for a couple of days but they are best eaten within 24 hours. 

Chocolate Covered Strawberry Brownies 

CHOCOLATE COVERED STRAWBERRY BROWNIES 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Cook time 
45 mins 
Total time 
45 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking / Original by If you Give a Blonde a Kitchen 
Recipe type: Dessert 
Serves: 9 
INGREDIENTS 

Brownies: 
1 cup + 2 tbsp semi sweet chocolate chips 
Ѕ cup unsalted butter, cut into 6-8 pieces 
3 tbsp cocoa powder 
3 large eggs 
1ј cups white granulated sugar 
2 tsp vanilla extract 
1 cup flour 
Ѕ tsp salt 

Topping: 
1 cup fresh strawberries, halved or quartered, dried on towels 
Ѕ cup dark chocolate melting wafers 
1Ѕ tsp coconut oil, divided 
ј cup white chocolate melting wafers 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line an 8x8 baking dish with parchment paper. Coat with cooking spray. 
Using a double boiler, or a medium heatproof bowl set over a pan of almost simmering water, melt the semi sweet chocolate chips and butter together, stirring occasionally until smooth. 
Whisk in the cocoa powder until well combined. Set aside to cool. 
Whisk together the eggs, sugar, vanilla extract, and salt in a medium bowl until well combined. 
Gradually whisk the warm chocolate mixture into the egg mixture, then stir in the flour until just combined. 
Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish making sure to spread into the corners and make it level. 
Place into the oven and bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until lightly puffed and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. 
Cool on a wire rack to room temperature, about 2 hours. 
Halve or quarter the strawberries depending on their size then place them on a towel until needed. You don't want wet strawberries on your brownies! 
When the brownies have completely cooled, spread the dried fresh strawberries evenly over them. 
Combine the dark chocolate melting wafers with 1 teaspoon of coconut oil together in a double boiler until melted. 
Drizzle evenly over the strawberries. 
Melt the white chocolate wafers in the double boiler with the remaining Ѕ teaspoon of coconut oil. Drizzle back and forth over the top of the brownies. 
Place into the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. Slice and serve. Enjoy. 
Store leftovers sealed in a covered container in the refrigerator for a couple of days but they are best eaten within 24 hours. 


START RECIPE
Pear Cranberry Gingersnap Crumble 
Pear Cranberry Gingersnap Crumble 
My mother in law sent us a wonderful gift bet for Christmas with some beautiful pears in it. I decided to do some baking with a few of the pears and found a recipe on Smitten Kitchen that looked too good to resist. This crumble is officially the best dessert I have ever made according to my daughter. She absolutely loved it and with good reason! What’s not to love about baked juicy pears cooked down with sugar and tart cranberries then topped with a crushed gingersnap crumble? The combination of flavors, textures, and colors in this dessert are wonderful. I paired this crumble with some vanilla ice cream and I think they were a match made in heaven! The warm sweet/tart/spicy crumble with the creamy melting vanilla ice cream in each bite was amazing. Guess what I’ll be making for Christmas dessert? This pear cranberry gingersnap crumble. 

Pear Cranberry Gingersnap Crumble 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a large baking dish with cooking spray. Place the baking dish on a tin foil lined baking sheet. 

Stir together the crushed gingersnaps, flour, granulated sugar, brown sugar, ginger and salt. Add the melted butter and stir until large crumbs form. Set aside. 

Mix the sliced pears, cranberries, sugar, cornstarch, lemon juice, lemon zest and vanilla together in the large baking dish (instead of getting another bowl dirty). 

Pear Cranberry Gingersnap Crumble 

Sprinkle the gingersnap crumble over the fruit mixture. 

Pear Cranberry Gingersnap Crumble 

Place into the oven and bake for 40-45 minutes, or until the crumble golden brown and the fruit juices are bubbling through the crumbs. Remove from the oven and allow to cool for 10-15 minutes. 

Serve with scoops of vanilla ice cream or whipped cream. Enjoy. 

Pear Cranberry Gingersnap Crumble 
PEAR CRANBERRY GINGERSNAP CRUMBLE 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
45 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love Cooking / Original by Smitten Kitchen 
Recipe type: Dessert 
Serves: 8 
INGREDIENTS 

Crumble: 
1 cup gingersnap, crushed into crumbs 
1 cup flour 
ј cup white sugar 
3 tbsp brown sugar 
? tsp ground ginger 
? tsp salt 
Ѕ cup unsalted butter, melted and cooled 

Fruit Filling: 
4 pears, peeled, halved, cored and sliced ј inch thick 
1Ѕ cups fresh cranberries 
Ѕ cup granulated sugar 
2 tbsp cornstarch 
1 tbsp fresh lemon juice 
Ѕ tsp lemon zest,finely grated 
Ѕ tsp vanilla extract 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a large baking dish with cooking spray. Place the baking dish on a tin foil lined baking sheet. 
Stir together the crushed gingersnaps, flour, granulated sugar, brown sugar, ginger and salt. 
Add the melted butter and stir until large crumbs form. Set aside. 
Mix the sliced pears, cranberries, sugar, cornstarch, lemon juice, lemon zest and vanilla together in the large baking dish (instead of getting another bowl dirty). 
Sprinkle the gingersnap crumble over the fruit mixture. 
Place into the oven and bake for 40-45 minutes, or until the crumble golden brown and the fruit juices are bubbling through the crumbs. 
Remove from the oven and allow to cool for 10-15 minutes. 
Serve with scoops of vanilla ice cream or whipped cream. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE

Chocolate Dipped Peanut Butter Cookies 

CHOCOLATE DIPPED PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES 
 

SAVE  
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
10 mins 
Total time 
20 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking 
Recipe type: Cookie 
Serves: 24 
INGREDIENTS 
Peanut Butter Cookies: 
1 ј cups flour 
Ѕ tsp baking soda 
Ѕ tsp baking powder 
Ѕ tsp salt 
Ѕ cup unsalted butter, softened 
Ѕ cup creamy peanut butter 
Ѕ cup light brown sugar 
Ѕ cup white sugar + 3 tbsp for rolling cookies, divided 
1 large egg 
1 tsp vanilla extract 

Dipping Chocolate: 
1 cup dark chocolate melts (semi sweet chocolate chips will work too) 
Ѕ tsp coconut oil 
Sprinkles 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with a silpat mat. 
Combine together the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl: mix well. 
In a large bowl, cream together the butter and peanut butter with a hand mixer, until combined. Add Ѕ cup of the white sugar and the brown sugar then beat until creamy and smooth. Add the egg and vanilla. Mix until combined. 
Slowly add in the dry ingredients and mix with a spoon, until just combined. 
Take about 2 tablespoons of dough and form into a ball. 
Roll in the remaining 3 tablespoons of white sugar. 
Place the cookies on the prepared baking sheet, about 2 inches apart. 
Place into the oven and bake the cookies for 9-10 minutes or until they are golden at the edges and just set. Don’t over bake! 
Remove from the oven and let the cookies set on the baking sheet for 5 minutes before transferring to a cooling rack. 
Once the cookies are cool and hardened, melt the dark chocolate, with Ѕ teaspoon of coconut oil, according to package directions. 
Dip half of each cookie into the melted dark chocolate, tapping off the excess, and place on a piece of parchment paper. 
Sprinkle each cookie immediately with sprinkles (so it will stick before the chocolate hardens). 
Store in a sealed container with parchment paper between layers. 
Serve with ice cold milk. Enjoy! 

START RECIPE
ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH 
ANNA STOCKWELL EPICURIOUS JANUARY 2018 
0/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (0) 

0% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWSBe the first to rate and review this recipe 
Cook This Now January Pork Tenderloin Sheet Pan Dinner / Photo by Chelsea Kyle, Food Styling by Anna Stockwell 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
PHOTO BY CHELSEA KYLE, FOOD STYLING BY ANNA STOCKWELL 

An ancho chile rub serves double-duty in this dinner: it's the sweet and zesty rub for the tenderloin, and for the roasted veg 

SHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON TWITTERSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON PINTERESTSHARE “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “ANCHO CHILE PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND SQUASH 
SAVE RECIPE 
ADD TO MENU  
PRINT 
TRENDING 
50 PEOPLE TRY TO MAKE GARLIC PASTE 

YIELD4 servings ACTIVE TIME40 TOTAL TIME45 
INGREDIENTS 
2 limes  delimINGER
2 teaspoons ground cumin delimINGER 
1 teaspoon ancho chile powder delimINGER
1 teaspoon brown sugar delimINGER
2 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt, divided delimINGER
2 pork tenderloins (about 1 pound eac delimINGER
1 1/2 pounds brussels sprouts, trimmed, quartere delimINGER
1 large red onion, halved, cut into 1/2-inch-thick wedge delimINGER
1 delicata squash, halved lengthwise, seeded, sliced into 1/4-inch half moon delimINGER
4 tablespoons vegetable oil, divide delimINGER
3/4 cup sour crea delimINGER
1/2 cup cilantro, finely chopped, plus whole leaves for servin delimINGER
Flaky sea salt and freshly ground black peppedelimINGER
PREPARATIO 

Place racks in top and center of oven: preheat to 425°F. Finely grate 2 tsp. lime zest into a small bowl.  Stir in cumin, chile powder, brown sugar, and 2 tsp. salt 
Toss brussels sprouts, onion, squash, 2 Tbsp. oil, and half of spiced salt on a rimmed baking sheet. Transfer to center rack in oven and roast 10 minutes. Toss and continue to roast until vegetables are browned and cooked through, 10–15 minutes more 
Meanwhile, rub pork tenderloins with remaining spiced salt and heat remaining 2 Tbsp. oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Sear pork on 3 sides until lightly browned, about 3 minutes per side. Turn tenderloins onto remaining side, then transfer skillet to top rack of oven. Roast pork until an instant-read thermometer inserted into thickest part registers 140°F for medium-rare or 145°F for medium, 8–10 minutes (temperature will rise by about 10°F after cooking). Transfer pork to a cutting board and let rest 5 minutes before slicing 


START RECIPE
MEATBALLS: THE SPUNTINO WAY 
FRANK FALCINELLI FRANK CASTRONOVO  PETER MEEHAN JULY 2010 THE FRANKIES SPUNTINO KITCHEN COMPANION & COOKING MANUAL FRANKIES SPUNTINO 
3.5/4  fork user rating 
REVIEWS (18) 

87% 
MAKE IT AGAIN 

GO TO REVIEWS 
Meatballs: The Spuntino Way / Travis Kauffman 
Facebook 
Pinterest 
TRAVIS KAUFFMAN 

SHARE “MEATBALLS: THE SPUNTINO WAY” ON FACEBOOKSHARE “MEATBALLS: THE SPUNTINO WAY” ON TWITTERSHARE “MEATBALLS: THE SPUNTINO WAY” ON PINTERESTSHARE “MEATBALLS: THE SPUNTINO WAY” ON GOOGLE+EMAIL “MEATBALLS: THE SPUNTINO WAY” 
ADD TO MENU 
PRINT 
TRENDING 
VEGETARIAN THREE-BEAN CHILI 

YIELDMakes 6 servings: 18 to 20 meatballs 
INGREDIENTS 
4 slices bread (2 packed cups' worth) delimINGER
2 pounds ground beef delimINGER
3 cloves garlic, minced delimINGER
1/4 cup finely chopped flat-leaf parsley delimINGER
1/4 cup grated Pecorino Romano, plus about 1 cup for serving delimINGER
1/4 cup raisins delimINGER
1/4 cup pine nuts delimINGER
1 1/2 teaspoons fine sea salt delimINGER
15 turns white pepper delimINGER
4 large eggs delimINGER
1/2 cup dried bread crumbs delimINGER
Tomato Sauce delimINGER
PREPARATION 
1. Heat the oven to 325°F. Put the fresh bread in a bowl, cover it with water, and let it soak for a minute or so. Pour off the water and wring out the bread, then crumble and tear it into tiny pieces. 
2. Combine the bread with all the remaining ingredients except the tomato sauce in a medium mixing bowl, adding them in the order they are listed. Add the dried bread crumbs last to adjust for wetness: the mixture should be moist wet, not sloppy wet. 
3. Shape the meat mixture into handball-sized meatballs and space them evenly on a baking sheet. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes. The meatballs will be firm but still juicy and gently yielding when they're cooked through. (At this point, you can cool the meatballs and hold them in the refrigerator for as long as a couple of days or freeze them for the future.) 
4. Meanwhile, heat the tomato sauce in a sautй pan large enough to accommodate the meatballs comfortably. 
5. Dump the meatballs into the pan of sauce and nudge the heat up ever so slightly. Simmer the meatballs for half an hour or so (this isn't one of those cases where longer is better) so they can soak up some sauce. Keep them there until it's time to eat. 
6. Serve the meatballs 3 to a person in a healthy helping of the red sauce, and hit everybody's portion-never the pan-with a fluffy mountain of grated cheese. Reserve the leftover tomato sauce (it will be super-extra-delicious) and use it anywhere tomato sauce is called for in this book. 


START RECIPE
Braised Red Cabba 

One of my favorite side dishes when I eat German food is braised red cabbage. It’s tender, tangy, little bit sweet, and seriously delicious. This cabbage pairs nicely with any schnitzel, sausage, pork, or chicken dish you pair it with. My kids both love it and so do I. I found a straightforward and easy recipe on Food Network that looked great. This red cabbage was simple to cook, smelled amazing, and tasted fantastic  – just like the braised red cabbage I get at our local favorite German restaurant! I love that. I paired this cabbage with Pork Schnitzel and German Roasted Potato Salad. 

Braised Red Cabbage 

Cook the chopped bacon until crisp, over medium heat in a large Dutch oven, about 4 minutes. Add the onions, cinnamon, bay leaves, and some sea salt, to taste. Cover, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is tender, about 8 minutes. 

Increase the heat to medium-high, add the cabbage and cook, stirring, until wilted, about 8 minutes. Add the diced apple, chicken broth, vinegar, sugar, then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook, covered, stirring occasionally, until the cabbage is tender, about 1 hour. 

Uncover then bring cabbage to a boil, and cook, stirring often, until the liquid has reduced to a sauce-like consistency, about 5 minutes. Taste and re-season if needed. Transfer to a serving dish and serve. Enjoy. 

Braised Red Cabbage 


 

BRAISED RED CABBAGE 
 

Yield: 8Cook Time: 1 hour 30 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
4 lean slices of bacon, chopped into small pieces delimINGER
1 medium sweet yellow onion, thinly sliced delimINGER
1 cinnamon stick delimINGER
2 bay leaves delimINGER
1 large head red cabbage, cored and thinly sliced delimINGER
1 Granny Smith apple, cored and diced delimINGER
2 cups chicken broth delimINGER
1/2 cup red wine vinegar delimINGER
2 tbsp sugar delimINGER
Sea salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste delimINGER

DIRECTIONS: delimINGER
Cook the chopped bacon until crisp, over medium heat in a large Dutch oven, about 4 minutes. Add the onions, cinnamon, bay leaves, and some sea salt, to taste. Cover, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is tender, about 8 minutes. 

Increase the heat to medium-high, add the cabbage and cook, stirring, until wilted, about 8 minutes. Add the diced apple, chicken broth, vinegar, sugar, then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook, covered, stirring occasionally, until the cabbage is tender, about 1 hour. 

Uncover then bring cabbage to a boil, and cook, stirring often, until the liquid has reduced to a sauce-like consistency, about 5 minutes. Taste and re-season if needed. Transfer to a serving dish and serve. Enjoy. 

Adapted recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 
Original recipe by Food Network 

START RECIPE
Braised Red Cabba 

One of my favorite side dishes when I eat German food is braised red cabbage. It’s tender, tangy, little bit sweet, and seriously delicious. This cabbage pairs nicely with any schnitzel, sausage, pork, or chicken dish you pair it with. My kids both love it and so do I. I found a straightforward and easy recipe on Food Network that looked great. This red cabbage was simple to cook, smelled amazing, and tasted fantastic  – just like the braised red cabbage I get at our local favorite German restaurant! I love that. I paired this cabbage with Pork Schnitzel and German Roasted Potato Salad. 

Braised Red Cabbage 

Cook the chopped bacon until crisp, over medium heat in a large Dutch oven, about 4 minutes. Add the onions, cinnamon, bay leaves, and some sea salt, to taste. Cover, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is tender, about 8 minutes. 

Increase the heat to medium-high, add the cabbage and cook, stirring, until wilted, about 8 minutes. Add the diced apple, chicken broth, vinegar, sugar, then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook, covered, stirring occasionally, until the cabbage is tender, about 1 hour. 

Uncover then bring cabbage to a boil, and cook, stirring often, until the liquid has reduced to a sauce-like consistency, about 5 minutes. Taste and re-season if needed. Transfer to a serving dish and serve. Enjoy. 

Braised Red Cabbage 


 

BRAISED RED CABBAGE 
 

Yield: 8Cook Time: 1 hour 30 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
4 lean slices of bacon, chopped into small pieces delimINGER
1 medium sweet yellow onion, thinly sliced delimINGER
1 cinnamon stick delimINGER
2 bay leaves delimINGER
1 large head red cabbage, cored and thinly sliced delimINGER
1 Granny Smith apple, cored and diced delimINGER
2 cups chicken broth delimINGER
1/2 cup red wine vinegar delimINGER
2 tbsp sugar delimINGER
Sea salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste delimINGER

DIRECTIONS: delimINGER
Cook the chopped bacon until crisp, over medium heat in a large Dutch oven, about 4 minutes. Add the onions, cinnamon, bay leaves, and some sea salt, to taste. Cover, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is tender, about 8 minutes. 

Increase the heat to medium-high, add the cabbage and cook, stirring, until wilted, about 8 minutes. Add the diced apple, chicken broth, vinegar, sugar, then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Cook, covered, stirring occasionally, until the cabbage is tender, about 1 hour. 

Uncover then bring cabbage to a boil, and cook, stirring often, until the liquid has reduced to a sauce-like consistency, about 5 minutes. Taste and re-season if needed. Transfer to a serving dish and serve. Enjoy. 

Adapted recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 
Original recipe by Food Network 

START RECIPE
Pork Schnitzel 

My family loves going to our local favorite German restaurant to eat braised red cabbage, schnitzel, sauerkraut, sausages, and German Roasted Potato Salad. I decided to try re-creating the pork schnitzel and braised red cabbage for dinner. This recipe was quick, easy, and fun to make and tasted terrific. I loved the crispy tender pork with the bit of tang from the lemon. We all loved this pork and thought it paired nicely with the braised red cabbage (recipe to come). 

Pork Schnitzel 

Place chops between 2 sheets of plastic wrap. With meat mallet or rolling pin, pound each piece to 1/8-inch thick. Sprinkle a bit of sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, paprika, and garlic powder, to taste, on both sides of each flattened pork chop. 

Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet. Swirl to coat pan. 

Dredge in flour, shake off excess flour then dip in egg mixture and place into the panko crumbs making sure to coat both sides of the chop evenly. Place the coated pork chops into the HOT oil. Cook, until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Flip pork and add the remaining tablespoon of olive oil – swirl to coat pan. Cook another 3 minutes or until golden and the pork is cooked through. Place onto a plate with paper towels to remove excess grease. Serve immediately with lemon slices. Enjoy. 

Pork Schnitzel 


 

PORK SCHNITZEL 
 

Yield: 4Prep Time: 10 minutesCook Time: 6 minutes
INGREDIENTS: 
4 thin cut boneless pork chops delimINGER
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste delimINGER
Paprika, to taste delimINGER
Garlic powder, to taste delimINGER
2 tbsp olive oil, divided delimINGER
1/4 cup flour delimINGER
1 egg, beaten delimINGER
1/2 cup plain panko crumbs delimINGER
Lemon slices delimINGER

DIRECTIONS: delimINGER
Place chops between 2 sheets of plastic wrap. With meat mallet or rolling pin, pound each piece to 1/8-inch thick. Sprinkle a bit of sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, paprika, and garlic powder, to taste, on both sides of each flattened pork chop. 

Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet. Swirl to coat pan. 

Dredge in flour, shake off excess flour then dip in egg mixture and place into the panko crumbs making sure to coat both sides of the chop evenly. Place the coated pork chops into the HOT oil. Cook, until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Flip pork and add the remaining tablespoon of olive oil – swirl to coat pan. Cook another 3 minutes or until golden and the pork is cooked through. Place onto a plate with paper towels to remove excess grease. Serve immediately with lemon slices. Enjoy. 

For the Love of Cooking.net 

START RECIPE
German Roasted Potato Salad 
German Roasted Potato Salad 

We had friends over for an Oktoberfest celebration and I decided to make a German potato salad.  I found this recipe on Use Real Butter that looked simple yet tasty.  I liked the idea of roasting the potatoes and using a vinegar base instead of a mayo or mustard base.  It was a snap to make and it was light and delicious.  It went really well with the brats, cabbage salad, fondue, and German beers. 

German Roasted Potato Salad 

Preheat the oven to 450 degrees.  Line a baking tray with tin foil then coat it well with cooking spray. 

Dice the potatoes and onions then drizzle with the olive oil and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste: toss to coat evenly then place them on the baking tray.  Place into the oven and roast for 35-40 minutes or until the potatoes are tender and cooked through.  Remove from the oven and place into a bowl. 

While the potatoes are cooking, cook the bacon in a skillet over medium heat, until crispy and cooked through.  Place the bacon on paper towels to drain the excess grease: crumble. 

Combine the vinegar, water, and sugar together then mix until well combined.  Add the bacon crumbles to the potatoes followed by the parsley.  Drizzle the vinegar mixture on top and mix until evenly coated.  Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste.  Serve warm. 

German Roasted Potato Salad 


 

GERMAN ROASTED POTATO SALAD 
 

Yield: 8Prep Time: 10 min.Cook Time: 40 min.Total Time: 50 min. 
INGREDIENTS: 
3 lbs of Yukon gold potatoes, scrubbed and diced into medium chunks delimINGER
1 yellow onion, diced delimINGER
2 tbsp olive oil delimINGER
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste delimINGER
8 pieces of lean bacon, cooked & crumbled delimINGER
3 tbsp fresh parsley, chopped delimINGER
1/4 cup of white vinegar delimINGER
3 tbsp sugar delimINGER
2 tbsp water delimINGER

DIRECTIONS: delimINGER
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. Line a baking tray with tin foil then coat well with cooking spray. 

Dice the potatoes and onions then drizzle with the olive oil and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste: toss to coat evenly then place them on the prepared baking tray. Place into the oven and roast for 35-40 minutes or until the potatoes are tender and cooked through, making sure to stir the potatoes every 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and place into a bowl. 

While the potatoes are cooking, cook the bacon in a skillet over medium heat, until crispy and cooked through. Place the bacon on paper towels to drain the excess grease: crumble. 

Combine the vinegar, water, and sugar together then mix until well combined. Add the bacon crumbles to the potatoes followed by the parsley. Drizzle the vinegar mixture on top and mix until evenly coated. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Serve warm. 

Adapted recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 
Original recipe by Use Real Butter 

START RECIPE
Pork Schnitzel  
Pork Schnitzel

My family loves going to our local favorite German restaurant to eat braised red cabbage, schnitzel, sauerkraut, sausages, and German Roasted Potato Salad. I decided to try re-creating the pork schnitzel and braised red cabbage for dinner. This recipe was quick, easy, and fun to make and tasted terrific. I loved the crispy tender pork with the bit of tang from the lemon. We all loved this pork and thought it paired nicely with the braised red cabbage (recipe to come). 

Pork Schnitzel 

Place chops between 2 sheets of plastic wrap. With meat mallet or rolling pin, pound each piece to 1/8-inch thick. Sprinkle a bit of sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, paprika, and garlic powder, to taste, on both sides of each flattened pork chop. 

Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet. Swirl to coat pan. 

Dredge in flour, shake off excess flour then dip in egg mixture and place into the panko crumbs making sure to coat both sides of the chop evenly. Place the coated pork chops into the HOT oil. Cook, until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Flip pork and add the remaining tablespoon of olive oil – swirl to coat pan. Cook another 3 minutes or until golden and the pork is cooked through. Place onto a plate with paper towels to remove excess grease. Serve immediately with lemon slices. Enjoy. 

Pork Schnitzel 


 

PORK SCHNITZEL 
 

Yield: 4Prep Time: 10 minutesCook Time: 6 minutes 
INGREDIENTS: 
4 thin cut boneless pork chops delimINGER
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste delimINGER
Paprika, to taste delimINGER
Garlic powder, to taste delimINGER
2 tbsp olive oil, divided delimINGER
1/4 cup flour delimINGER
1 egg, beaten delimINGER
1/2 cup plain panko crumbs delimINGER
Lemon slices delimINGER

DIRECTIONS: delimINGER
Place chops between 2 sheets of plastic wrap. With meat mallet or rolling pin, pound each piece to 1/8-inch thick. Sprinkle a bit of sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, paprika, and garlic powder, to taste, on both sides of each flattened pork chop. 

Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet. Swirl to coat pan. 

Dredge in flour, shake off excess flour then dip in egg mixture and place into the panko crumbs making sure to coat both sides of the chop evenly. Place the coated pork chops into the HOT oil. Cook, until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Flip pork and add the remaining tablespoon of olive oil – swirl to coat pan. Cook another 3 minutes or until golden and the pork is cooked through. Place onto a plate with paper towels to remove excess grease. Serve immediately with lemon slices. Enjoy. 

For the Love of Cooking.net 


START RECIPE
 STEAR RECIPE
 BROWN BUTTER SNICKERDOODLES 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
1 hour 25 mins 
Cook time 
9 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 34 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking / Inspired by A Southern Grace 
Recipe type: Cookie 
Serves: 18 cookies 
INGREDIENTS 

Dough: delimINGER
Ѕ cup unsalted butter, softened delimINGER
1Ѕ cups flour delimINGER
Ѕ tsp baking soda delimINGER
ј tsp cream of tartar delimINGER
ј tsp salt delimINGER
Ѕ cup white sugar delimINGER
? cup brown sugar, packed delimINGER

For Rolling: delimINGER
2 tbsp white sugar delimINGER
1 tsp cinnamon delimINGER
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a medium saucepan, add 1 stick of unsalted butter and melt over medium heat. 
Stir the butter often once it has melted. It will start to foam at the top and you will see the color of the butter change to brown. 
This process only takes about 5 minutes and the turn happens quickly. 
Immediately remove the pan from the heat and allow to cool for a few minutes. 
Pour the brown butter & and all of the brown bits into a small bowl and place into the refrigerator for 15 minutes, to cool completely. 
Combine the flour with the baking soda, cream of tartar, and salt until well mixed.
Cream the white sugar and egg with a hand mixer. 
Add the cooled brown butter and brown sugar then beat until creamy. 
Slowly add the flour mixture to the butter mixture until mixed thoroughly.
Place into the refrigerator for 60 minutes to harden.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and line a baking tray with a silpat mat. 
Combine the 2 tablespoons of white sugar with the cinnamon and mix well. 
Roll the dough in a small ball then toss in the cinnamon/sugar mixture.
Place on the silpat mat lined baking sheet then lightly press the dough with your hand to slightly flatten. 
place dough 2 inches apart on the baking sheet. 
Place the baking tray into the oven and bake for 8-9 minutes. 
Side Note: If you like crisper cookies, cook for 9-11 minutes.  
Remove from the oven and let cool on the baking tray for a few minutes before transferring them to a cooling rack. 
Serve with ice cold milk. Enjoy! 


STEAR RECIPE
CHOCOLATE COVERED STRAWBERRY BROWNIES 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Cook time 
45 mins 
Total time 
45 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking / Original by If you Give a Blonde a Kitchen 
Recipe type: Dessert 
Serves: 9 
INGREDIENTS 

Brownies: delimINGER
 1 cup + 2 tbsp semi sweet chocolate chips delimINGER
Ѕ cup unsalted butter, cut into 6-8 pieces delimINGER
3 tbsp cocoa powder delimINGER
3 large eggs delimINGER
1ј cups white granulated sugar delimINGER
2 tsp vanilla extract delimINGER
1 cup flour delimINGER
Ѕ tsp salt delimINGER

Topping: delimINGER
1 cup fresh strawberries, halved or quartered, dried on towels delimINGER
Ѕ cup dark chocolate melting wafers delimINGER
1Ѕ tsp coconut oil, divided delimINGER
ј cup white chocolate melting wafers delimINGER
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line an 8x8 baking dish with parchment paper. Coat with cooking spray. 
Using a double boiler, or a medium heatproof bowl set over a pan of almost simmering water, melt the semi sweet chocolate chips and butter together, stirring occasionally until smooth. 
Whisk in the cocoa powder until well combined. Set aside to cool. 
Whisk together the eggs, sugar, vanilla extract, and salt in a medium bowl until well combined. 
Gradually whisk the warm chocolate mixture into the egg mixture, then stir in the flour until just combined. 
Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish making sure to spread into the corners and make it level. 
Place into the oven and bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until lightly puffed and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. 
Cool on a wire rack to room temperature, about 2 hours. 
Halve or quarter the strawberries depending on their size then place them on a towel until needed. You don't want wet strawberries on your brownies! 
When the brownies have completely cooled, spread the dried fresh strawberries evenly over them. 
Combine the dark chocolate melting wafers with 1 teaspoon of coconut oil together in a double boiler until melted. 
Drizzle evenly over the strawberries. 
Melt the white chocolate wafers in the double boiler with the remaining Ѕ teaspoon of coconut oil. Drizzle back and forth over the top of the brownies. 
Place into the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. Slice and serve. Enjoy. 
Store leftovers sealed in a covered container in the refrigerator for a couple of days but they are best eaten within 24 hours. 


STEAR RECIPE


SEARCH THIS WEBSITE … 
Search 
For the Love of Cooking 

HOME 
 
ABOUT 
 
RECIPES 
 
CONTACT 
Blueberry Buckle 
Blueberry Buckle 

We stayed home and had a quiet Christmas vacation for the first time in a long while and it was wonderful. While it was sad to be away from our far away friends and family, we were also really happy to be home. We had many lazy days, ate good food, played lots of board games, ed a ton of movies, and slept in almost every single day. Other than heading to the beach one day, we stayed close to home and it was just what we all needed. I hope you all had a wonderful holiday break too! 

My kids still have a couple days of vacation left but my husband headed back to work today so I decided to get back to work too. The grocery store had a great sale on blueberries so I grabbed some and decided to do some baking. When looking for a recipe online, I came across a recipe for a blueberry buckle which had me intrigued. A blueberry buckle is basically a dense blueberry cake with a struesel topping that “buckles” as the cake is baking. My kids each had a friend over and they all happily taste tested the cake for me. Thankfully, it was a HUGE hit with all four of them and they said it was delicious. I am looking forward to having a slice for dessert tonight. 

Blueberry Buckle 

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Coat a round cake pan with cooking spray. delimINGER

In a large bowl, cream together the sugar, butter. Add the egg and lemon zest then beat until fluffy. delimINGER

In a separate bowl combine the flour, baking powder, and salt. Add the flour mixture to the creamed mixture, alternating with the milk. Mix until just combined. delimINGER

Toss blueberries with 1 tablespoon flour. Fold into batter and spread the thick batter in the prepared pan. delimINGER

Blueberry Buckle  

Combine the streusel toppings together with your fingers until crumbly. 

Blueberry Buckle 

Sprinkle the streusel topping over batter evenly and bake 40-50 minutes or until a toothpick comes out clean. 

Blueberry Buckle 

STEAR RECIPE
PEAR CRANBERRY GINGERSNAP CRUMBLE 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time  
15 mins 
Cook time 
45 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 
Author: Pam - For the Love Cooking / Original by Smitten Kitchen 
Recipe type: Dessert 
Serves: 8 
INGREDIENTS 

Crumble: delimINGER
1 cup gingersnap, crushed into crumbs delimINGER
1 cup flour delimINGER
ј cup white sugar delimINGER
3 tbsp brown sugar delimINGER
? tsp ground ginger delimINGER
? tsp salt delimINGER
Ѕ cup unsalted butter, melted and cooled delimINGER

Fruit Filling: delimINGER
4 pears, peeled, halved, cored and sliced ј inch thick delimINGER
1Ѕ cups fresh cranberries delimINGER
Ѕ cup granulated sugar delimINGER
2 tbsp cornstarch delimINGER
1 tbsp fresh lemon juice delimINGER
Ѕ tsp lemon zest,finely grated delimINGER
Ѕ tsp vanilla extract delimINGER
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat a large baking dish with cooking spray. Place the baking dish on a tin foil lined baking sheet. 
Stir together the crushed gingersnaps, flour, granulated sugar, brown sugar, ginger and salt.
Add the melted butter and stir until large crumbs form. Set aside. 
Mix the sliced pears, cranberries, sugar, cornstarch, lemon juice, lemon zest and vanilla together in the large baking dish (instead of getting another bowl dirty). 
Sprinkle the gingersnap crumble over the fruit mixture. 
Place into the oven and bake for 40-45 minutes, or until the crumble golden brown and the fruit juices are bubbling through the crumbs. 
Remove from the oven and allow to cool for 10-15 minutes. 
Serve with scoops of vanilla ice cream or whipped cream. Enjoy. 



STEAR RECIPE
CHOCOLATE DIPPED PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
10 mins 
Total time 
20 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking 
Recipe type: Cookie 
Serves: 24 
INGREDIENTS 
Peanut Butter Cookies: delimINGER
1 ј cups flour delimINGER
Ѕ tsp baking soda delimINGER
Ѕ tsp baking powder delimINGER
Ѕ tsp salt delimINGER
Ѕ cup unsalted butter, softened delimINGER
Ѕ cup creamy peanut butter delimINGER
Ѕ cup white sugar + 3 tbsp for rolling cookies, divided delimINGER
1 large egg delimINGER
1 tsp vanilla extract delimINGER

Dipping Chocolate: delimINGER
1 cup dark chocolate melts (semi sweet chocolate chips will work too) delimINGER
Ѕ tsp coconut oil delimINGER
Sprinkles delimINGER
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with a silpat mat. 
Combine together the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl: mix well. 
In a large bowl, cream together the butter and peanut butter with a hand mixer, until combined. Add Ѕ cup of the white sugar and the brown sugar then beat until creamy and smooth. Add the egg and vanilla. Mix until combined. 
Slowly add in the dry ingredients and mix with a spoon, until just combined. 
Take about 2 tablespoons of dough and form into a ball. 
Roll in the remaining 3 tablespoons of white sugar. 
Place the cookies on the prepared baking sheet, about 2 inches apart. 
Place into the oven and bake the cookies for 9-10 minutes or until they are golden at the edges and just set. Don’t over bake! 
Remove from the oven and let the cookies set on the baking sheet for 5 minutes before transferring to a cooling rack. 
Once the cookies are cool and hardened, melt the dark chocolate, with Ѕ teaspoon of coconut oil, according to package directions. 
Dip half of each cookie into the melted dark chocolate, tapping off the excess, and place on a piece of parchment paper. 
Sprinkle each cookie immediately with sprinkles (so it will stick before the chocolate hardens). 
Store in a sealed container with parchment paper between layers. 
Serve with ice cold milk. Enjoy! 


STEAR RECIPE

Raspberry Sauce 
Raspberry Sauce 

It’s hard to believe that my daughter is turning 12 tomorrow. She’s growing up so fast and has become such a sweet, kind, lovely, and empathetic girl. I am a very proud mom! Birthday meals are a big tradition in our family. Tomorrow she has requested chocolate chip pancakes with raspberry sauce for her birthday breakfast. The sauce takes 10 minutes to make and tastes amazing. It’s a little bit sweet and sour and a whole love of YUMMY! I have a feeling this sauce will be extra delicious on top of chocolate chip pancakes and will make my birthday girl very happy! This raspberry sauce is also wonderful on waffles, crepes, French toast, and ice cream too. 

Raspberry Sauce 

Mix the cornstarch with the water until well combined. Pour the water mixture, raspberries, sugar, and lemon zest into a pan over medium heat. Cook, stirring occasionally for 4-5 minutes or until thickened and the raspberries are bursting. Remove from the heat and let cool. Spoon over your waffles, pancakes, French toast, crepes, or ice cream. Enjoy. 

Raspberry Sauce 


 

RASPBERRY SAUCE 
 

Total Time: 10 min. 
INGREDIENTS: 
1/3 cup of water 
1 1/2 tbsp cornstarch 
20 oz fresh raspberries 
1/4 cup of sugar, (more if your berries are tart) 
Zest from 1 small lemon 

DIRECTIONS: 
Mix the cornstarch with the water until well combined. Pour the water mixture, raspberries, sugar, and lemon zest into a pan over medium heat. Cook, stirring occasionally for 4-5 minutes or until thickened and the raspberries are bursting. Remove from the heat and let cool. Spoon over your waffles, pancakes, French toast, crepes, or ice cream. Enjoy. 

Recipe and photos by For the Love of Cooking.net 


START RECIPE
Egg, Roasted Pepper, and Feta Stuffed Portobello 
Egg, Roasted Pepper, and Feta Stuffed Portobello 

I made this for my breakfast today and loved every single bite. I had one left over portobello from the Asian Portobello Taco recipe that needed to be used up. I grabbed some roasted peppers from the pantry and some feta and an egg from the fridge. I roasted the portobello with the peppers & feta for a few minutes then cracked an egg in the center and cooked until the whites were cooked through. It was a healthy, flavorful, and hearty breakfast that I can’t wait to have again. Soon. 

Egg, Roasted Pepper, and Feta Stuffed Portobello 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Line a baking sheet with tin foil then coat with cooking spray. 

Remove the stem and gills from the mushroom. Rub the portobello with a bit of olive oil then season both sides with sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, and garlic powder, to taste. Sprinkle the inside of the mushroom with some roasted red pepper and feta cheese then add a pinch of crushed red pepper on top. 

Egg, Roasted Pepper, and Feta Stuffed Portobello 

Place into the oven and bake for 7 minutes. Remove from the oven and crack the egg into the center of the mushroom. 

Egg, Roasted Pepper, and Feta Stuffed Portobello 
Place back into the oven and cook for 13-15 minutes, or until the whites are cooked and the yolk is runny. Remove from the oven and place on a plate sprinkle some chopped basil on top. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Egg, Roasted Pepper, and Feta Stuffed Portobello 

 

EGG, ROASTED PEPPER, AND FETA STUFFED PORTOBELLO 
 

Yield: 1Total Time: 20 min. 
INGREDIENTS: 
1 portobello mushroom, stem & gills removed 
Olive oil, to taste 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
Garlic powder, to taste 
Roasted bell pepper, to taste 
Feta cheese, to taste 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes 
1 egg 
Fresh basil, chopped 

DIRECTIONS: 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Line a baking sheet with tin foil then coat with cooking spray. 

Remove the stem and gills from the mushroom. Rub the portobello with a bit of olive oil then season both sides with sea salt, freshly cracked pepper, and garlic powder, to taste. Sprinkle the inside of the mushroom with some roasted red pepper and feta cheese then add a pinch of crushed red pepper on top. 

Place into the oven and bake for 7 minutes. Remove from the oven and crack the egg into the center of the mushroom. 

Place back into the oven and cook for 13-15 minutes, or until the whites are cooked and the yolk is runny. Remove from the oven and place on a plate sprinkle some chopped basil on top. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Tomato Cream Sauce: 
Tomato Cream Sauce: 

My husband and I went out for a lunch date earlier in the week and I had homemade pork ravioli with a delicious tomato cream sauce. My husband and I both thought the dish was incredible and I wanted to recreate that sauce soon. I cooked all day today and this sauce was one of the recipes I made. It simmered for 45 minutes and I served it over cheese ravioli with lots of fresh basil and grated parmesan. The sauce was a huge hit with all of us, especially my husband who had seconds and was very excited to get the leftovers for lunch tomorrow. 

Tomato Cream Sauce: 

Melt the butter and olive oil over medium heat in a large skillet. Add the onion and crushed red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, for 3-4 minutes. Add the minced garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Add the two cans of tomato sauce and a pinch of sugar then stir to combine. Bring to a simmer and reduce heat to low and cook, stirring occasionally, for 45 minutes. 

Add the cream and mix well. Taste then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Serve over desired pasta al dente and top with lots of fresh basil and grated Parmesan cheese. Enjoy. 

Tomato Cream Sauce 

TOMATO CREAM SAUCE 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
50 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking 
Recipe type: Pasta Sauce 
Cuisine: Italian 
Serves: 6-8 
INGREDIENTS 

Tomato Cream Sauce: 
2 tbsp butter 
1 tsp olive oil 
Ѕ sweet yellow onion, diced 
Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes, to taste 
4 cloves of garlic, minced 
2 (15 oz) cans of tomato sauce 
Pinch of sugar, to taste 
1 cup heavy cream 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 

Other Ingredients: 
Pasta of choice, cooked per instructions 
Fresh basil, chopped 
Parmesan, grated 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Melt the butter and olive oil over medium heat in a large skillet. 
Add the onion and crushed red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, for 3-4 minutes. 
Add the minced garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. 
Add the two cans of tomato sauce and a pinch of sugar then stir to combine. 
Bring to a simmer and reduce heat to low and cook, stirring occasionally, for 45 minutes. 
Add the cream and mix well. 
Taste then season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Serve over desired pasta al dente and top with lots of fresh basil and grated Parmesan cheese. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE
Slow Roasted Garlic Chicken 
Slow Roasted Garlic Chicken 

My daughter came home from school not feeling well today so it was a good thing I was roasting a chicken for dinner – the ultimate comfort food. I slow roasted this whole chicken with lots of garlic, onion, and lemon and basted the bird a few times while it slow roasted in the oven for a few hours. The house smelled incredible and the chicken turned out delicious. This slow roasted garlic chicken was tender, juicy, and so flavorful and it paired nicely with the house salad and cheesy potatoes I served it with. Thankfully, my daughter liked the meal and so did the rest of us. 

Slow Roasted Garlic Chicken 

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. 

Rinse the chicken and pat it dry with paper towels. Rub the skin of the chicken all over with one of the garlic heads. Season the cavity with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Place the garlic head in the cavity (that you just rubbed over the chicken). Place half a lemon and an onion wedge in the cavity. Drizzle some olive oil over the chicken and rub it evenly over the entire bird. Season the whole bird with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste.  Place the remaining garlic heads in a large Dutch oven along with the remaining onion wedges and the other lemon half cut into wedges. Place the chicken on top of the veggies in the Dutch oven. Pour one cup of chicken broth in the bottom of the Dutch oven. 

Slow Roasted Garlic Chicken 

Place into the oven and roast, basting every 30 minutes, for the first 2 hours. Stop basting and continue roasting for another 30-60 minutes, or until the chicken is cooked through and the juices run clear. The inner thigh temperature should be 165-170 degrees. Remove from the oven and allow to rest for 15 minutes. 

While the chicken is resting, pour the pan juices into a small saucepan over medium heat. Simmer for 7-10 minutes or until it thickens. Taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Serve the chicken with the roasted garlic bulbs and the pan sauce. Enjoy. 

Slow Roasted Garlic Chicken 

5.0 from 1 reviews 
SLOW ROASTED GARLIC CHICKEN 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
3 hours 
Total time 
3 hours 10 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking / Adapted from Food Network 
Recipe type: Chicken 
INGREDIENTS 
1 (5 lb) whole chicken 
5 heads of garlic, top Ѕ inch sliced off 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
1 lemon, halved 
1 onion, cut into wedges 
Olive oil, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. 
Rinse the chicken and pat it dry with paper towels. 
Rub the skin of the chicken all over with one of the garlic heads. 
Season the cavity with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Place the garlic head in the cavity (that you just rubbed over the chicken). 
Place half a lemon and an onion wedge in the cavity. 
Drizzle some olive oil over the chicken and rub it evenly over the entire bird. 
Season the whole bird with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Place the remaining garlic heads in a large Dutch oven along with the remaining onion wedges and the other lemon half cut into wedges. 
Place the chicken on top of the veggies in the Dutch oven. 
Pour one cup of chicken broth in the bottom of the Dutch oven. 
Place into the oven and roast, basting every 30 minutes, for the first 2 hours. 
Stop basting and continue roasting for another 30-60 minutes, or until the chicken is cooked through and the juices run clear. The inner thigh temperature should be 165-170 degrees. 
Remove from the oven and allow to rest for 15 minutes. 
While the chicken is resting, pour the pan juices into a small saucepan over medium heat. Simmer for 7-10 minutes or until it thickens. 
Taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Serve the chicken with the roasted garlic bulbs and the pan sauce. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE
Chicken with White Wine Sauce and Mushrooms 
Chicken with White Wine Sauce and Mushrooms 

This recipe was the main dish for our Sunday dinner this week and it was fantastic. The recipe comes together in about 45 minutes and is quite simple to make. I served this chicken with white wine sauce and mushrooms with creamy mashed potatoes and a delicious spinach salad. The entire meal was delicious, comforting, and a new family favorite. My daughter had seconds and deemed it her new favorite chicken recipe. Yay! 

Chicken with White Wine Sauce and Mushrooms 

Heat 1 tablespoon of butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the sliced mushrooms and leave alone for 3-4 minutes. Flip and continue to cook until golden brown, about 2-3 minutes. Add the minced shallot then cook, stirring often, for 2 minutes. Add the minced garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Pour the mushrooms into a bowl: set aside. 

In a bowl, season the flour with garlic powder, and some sea salt & freshly cracked pepper, to taste: mix until well combined. Whisk eggs until well combined,  in a separate bowl. 

Cut the thin portion of the bottom couple inches of the chicken breast off. Cut each remaining portion of the chicken breast in half then cut each of those pieces in half lengthwise. Place some saran wrap over the top of the chicken on the cutting board, and pound with a mallet until they are about ј-Ѕ inch thick. 

Heat two tablespoons of olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 

Dip the chicken lightly in the seasoned flour, next dip into the whisked egg, and lastly dip back into the flour before placing into the hot oil in the skillet: repeat with remaining chicken, cooking in batches if needed. Cook the chicken undisturbed until golden brown, about 4-5 minutes then flip over and continue to cook until golden brown and cooked through, about 3-4 minutes. Remove from the skillet and place on a paper towel lined plate. Cover loosely with tin foil tent. 

Add the a tablespoon of butter to the pan then whisk in the flour until well combined. Add the wine and whisk until thickened, about 1 minute. Slowly add the chicken stock and lemon juice while whisking: simmer for 2-3 minutes. Add the mushrooms and their liquids to the sauce: mix well. Whisk in the tablespoon of butter then taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, add more lemon if needed. Place the chicken on a serving platter then drizzle with mushroom sauce and sprinkle the top with fresh parsley. Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

Chicken with White Wine Sauce and Mushrooms 

CHICKEN WITH WHITE WINE SAUCE AND MUSHROOMS

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
30 mins 
total time 
45 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking 
Recipe type: Chicken 
Serves: 4 
INGREDIENTS 
3 tbsp butter, divided 
8 oz button mushrooms, sliced 
2 tbsp shallot, finely diced 
1 clove of garlic, minced 
Ѕ cup flour 
Ѕ tsp garlic powder 
Sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
2 eggs, whisked well 
2 boneless skinless chicken breasts 
2 tbsp olive oil 
1 tbsp flour 
ј cup white wine 
Ѕ cup chicken broth 
Juice from 1 large lemon 
1Ѕ tbsp butter 
Fresh parsley, chopped 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Heat 1 tablespoon of butter in a large skillet over medium heat. 
Add the sliced mushrooms and leave alone for 3-4 minutes. 
Flip and continue to cook until golden brown, about 2-3 minutes. 
Add the minced shallot then cook, stirring often, for 2 minutes. 
Add the minced garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. 
Season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. Pour the mushrooms into a bowl: set aside. 
In a bowl, season the flour with garlic powder, and some sea salt & freshly cracked pepper, to taste: mix until well combined. 
Whisk eggs until well combined, in a separate bowl. 
Cut the thin portion of the bottom couple inches of the chicken breast off. Cut each remaining portion of the chicken breast in half then cut each of those pieces in half lengthwise. Place some saran wrap over the top of the chicken on the cutting board, and pound with a mallet until they are about ј-Ѕ inch thick.
Heat two tablespoons of olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 
Dip the chicken lightly in the seasoned flour, next dip into the whisked egg, and lastly dip back into the flour before placing into the hot oil in the skillet: repeat with remaining chicken, cooking in batches if needed. 
Cook the chicken undisturbed until golden brown, about 4-5 minutes then flip over and continue to cook until golden brown and cooked through, about 3-4 minutes. 
Remove from the skillet and place on a paper towel lined plate. Cover loosely with tin foil tent. 
Add the a tablespoon of butter to the pan then whisk in the flour until well combined. 
Add the wine and whisk until thickened, about 1 minute. 
Slowly add the chicken stock and lemon juice while whisking: simmer for 2-3 minutes. 
Add the mushrooms and their liquids to the sauce: mix well. 
Whisk in the tablespoon of butter then taste and season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste, add more lemon if needed. 
Place the chicken on a serving platter then drizzle with mushroom sauce and sprinkle the top with fresh parsley. 
Serve immediately. Enjoy. 

START RECIPE
Stuffing with Sausage and Cornbread 
Stuffing with Sausage and Cornbread 

For our recent pre-Thanksgiving turkey feast, I wanted to try a new stuffing recipe. After looking online and through cookbooks, I decided on a simple stuffing using French bread, cornbread, and sausage from a recipe I found on Epicurious. Thankfully, I had just made a batch of brown butter cornbread and had quite a bit leftover so I diced it up and used it for this recipe. Since we had a busy schedule, I dried the French bread and cornbread the day before making the stuffing. The stuffing came together fairly easily and it smelled incredible while it baked. This stuffing with sausage and cornbread was a big hit with everyone – especially me. 

Stuffing with Sausage and Cornbread 

Preheat oven to 300 degrees.  Arrange the French bread and cornbread in a single layer on rimmed baking sheets. Bake, tossing occasionally, until completely dried out, 35–50 minutes. Let the bread cool on the baking sheets, then pour into a very large bowl. 

Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high. Cook the sausage, making sure to break it into crumbles, until just browned, 8–10 minutes. Transfer to bowl with bread but do not stir. 

Heat the stick of butter in same skillet over medium-high. Add the onions and celery, and cook stirring often, until just beginning to brown, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Add to bowl with bread mixture and let cool. 

Whisk the eggs, chicken broth, parsley, sage, and thyme, in a medium bowl: season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 

Stuffing with Sausage and Cornbread 

Add egg mixture to bread mixture and fold gently until thoroughly combined. 

Increase oven temperature to 350 degrees. Butter an 9 x 11 baking sheet with butter or cooking spray. Transfer stuffing to prepared dish. 

Stuffing with Sausage and Cornbread 

Cover with foil, and bake for 40–45 minutes. Uncover and continue to bake until set and top is browned and crisped, 45–50 minutes more. Remove from the oven. Serve and enjoy. 

Stuffing with Sausage and Cornbread 

STUFFING WITH SAUSAGE AND CORNBREAD 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
2 hours 30 mins 
Total time 
2 hours 45 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking / Original by Epicurious 
Recipe type: Side Dish 
Serves: 8 
INGREDIENTS 
5 cups good-quality day-old crusty French or peasant bread, cut into bite sized pieces 
5 cups day-old crusty cornbread, cut into bite sized pieces 
Ѕ cup unsalted butter 
1 large sweet yellow onion, diced 
3 celery stalks, diced 
2 large eggs 
2Ѕ cups chicken broth 
Ѕ cup fresh parsley, chopped 
2 tbsp fresh sage, chopped 
1 tbsp fresh thyme, chopped 
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat oven to 300 degrees. 
Arrange the French bread and cornbread in a single layer on rimmed baking sheets. 
Bake, tossing occasionally, until completely dried out, 35–50 minutes. 
Let the bread cool on the baking sheets, then pour into a very large bowl. 
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high. 
Cook the sausage, making sure to break it into crumbles, until just browned, 8–10 minutes. 
Transfer to bowl with bread but do not stir. 
Heat the stick of butter in same skillet over medium-high. 
Add the onions and celery, and cook stirring often, until just beginning to brown, about 10 minutes. 
Add the garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. 
Add to bowl with bread mixture and let cool. 
Whisk the eggs, chicken broth, parsley, sage, and thyme, in a medium bowl: season with sea salt and freshly cracked pepper, to taste. 
Add egg mixture to bread mixture and fold gently until thoroughly combined. 
Increase oven temperature to 350 degrees. 
Butter an 9 x 11 baking sheet with butter or cooking spray. Transfer stuffing to prepared dish, cover with foil, and bake for 40–45 minutes. 
Uncover and continue to bake until set and top is browned and crisped, 45–50 minutes more. Remove from the oven. 
Serve and enjoy. 


START RECIPE
Roasted Turkey 
Roasted Turkey 

I wanted to try a new turkey recipe this year so I went online to search for some recipes. I found an Alton Brown recipe that sounded interesting and delicious on the Food Network. Due to a busy week, I made the brine the night before I needed it. I let the turkey soak in the brine for 12 hours before roasting. The aromatics were steeped in the microwave before putting them in the cavity of the bird which I thought was clever. I simply seasoned the turkey with vegetable oil and black pepper. This turkey roasted for a few hours and turned out beautiful. The skin was crisp and golden and the meat was tender, juicy, and flavorful. We all thought this turkey was delicious. 

Roasted Turkey 

Thaw the turkey completely in the refrigerator for a few days before roasting. 

Make the brine by combining the turkey stock, salt, brown sugar, black peppercorns, allspice berries, and candied ginger together in a saucepan over medium high heat. Bring to a boil. Stir well and set aside to cool completely. Refrigerate the brine until you need to use it. 

12 hours prior to roasting, add 1 gallon of ice cold water to the brine: stir to mix well. Remove the giblets from the turkey cavity and rinse with cold water. Place the turkey, breast side down, in the brine. Use a plate to keep the turkey submerged if needed. Cover the brine container with a lid and refrigerate for 12 hours. 

Preheat the oven to 500 degrees. Line a roasting pan with a roasting rack. 

Roasted Turkey 

Remove the turkey from the brine and rinse well, inside and out. Pat very dry with paper towels then place on a roasting rack in a roasting tray. Slather vegetable oil all over the turkey then season with freshly cracked black pepper. 
Place the water, apple, onion, and cinnamon stick in a microwave proof bowl and cook on high for five minutes. 

Roasted Turkey 

Add the steeped aromatics to the turkey cavity along with the sage leaves and the rosemary sprigs. Tie the legs together with twine. 

Roasted Turkey 

Place the turkey in the HOT oven for 30 minutes. REDUCE the heat to 350 degrees and place a meat thermometer in the thickest part of the breast then set alarm for 161 degrees, roast for about 2Ѕ-3 hours. Let the turkey rest for at least 15 minutes prior to carving. Enjoy! 

Roasted Turkey 
5.0 from 4 reviews 
ROASTED TURKEY 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
12 hours 30 mins 
Cook time 
3 hours 
Total time 
15 hours 30 mins 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking / Original recipe by Alton Brown on Food Network 
Recipe type: Turkey 
INGREDIENTS 

Brine: 
1 cup kosher salt 
Ѕ cup light brown sugar 
1 gallon vegetable stock 
1 tbsp black peppercorns 
1Ѕ tsp allspice berries 
1Ѕ tsp candied ginger, chopped 
1 gallon ice cold water 

Turkey: 
13 lb turkey 
Vegetable oil 
Freshly cracked pepper, to taste 
1 cup of water 
1 red apple, sliced into wedges 
Ѕ sweet yellow onion, sliced into wedges 
1 cinnamon stick 
6 sage leaves 
1 large sprig of rosemary 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Thaw the turkey completely in the refrigerator for a few days before roasting. 
Make the brine by combining the turkey stock, salt, brown sugar, black peppercorns, allspice berries, and candied ginger together in a saucepan over medium high heat. 
Bring to a boil. 
Stir well and set aside to cool completely. 
Refrigerate the brine until you need to use it. 
12 hours prior to roasting, add 1 gallon of ice cold water to the brine: stir to mix well. 
Remove the giblets from the turkey cavity and rinse with cold water. 
Place the turkey, breast side down, in the brine. Use a plate to keep the turkey submerged if needed. 
Cover the brine container with a lid and refrigerate for 12 hours. 
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees. 
Remove the turkey from the brine and rinse well, inside and out. 
Pat very dry with paper towels then place on a roasting rack in a roasting tray. 
Slather vegetable oil all over the turkey then season with freshly cracked black pepper. 
Place the water, apple, onion, and cinnamon stick in a microwave proof bowl and cook on high for five minutes. 
Add the steeped aromatics to the turkey cavity along with the sage leaves and the rosemary sprigs. 
Tie the legs together with twine. 
Place the turkey in the HOT oven for 30 minutes. 
REDUCE the heat to 350 degrees and place a meat thermometer in the thickest part of the breast then set alarm for 161 degrees, roast for about 2Ѕ-3 hours.  
Let the turkey rest for at least 15 minutes prior to carving. Enjoy! 


START RECIPE
Sweet Potato Casserole 
Sweet Potato Casserole 

I have never made a sweet potato casserole before so I decided to give it a try for an early Thanksgiving dinner I made for my family and some friends. I was surprised to learn that nobody had ever tried sweet potato casserole before. I will make a much bigger batch next time because this sweet potato casserole was a huge hit – especially with the kids. This casserole was much easier to make than I anticipated and it smelled wonderful as it baked. We all  thought it was delicious! 

Sweet Potato Casserole 

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Coat a small baking dish with cooking spray. 

Place the peeled & sliced sweet potatoes in a pan of cold water then bring to a boil over medium high heat. Reduce heat and simmer until fork tender, about 20 minutes. Drain the sweet potatoes well. Add the brown sugar, butter, cinnamon, and salt then mash together using a potato masher until creamy and smooth. Taste and add more seasonings, to taste, if needed. 

Spread the sweet potatoes in the prepared baking dish evenly. Sprinkle the top with the chopped pecans. 

Sweet Potato Casserole 

Spread the miniature marshmallows evenly over the top. 

Sweet Potato Casserole 

Place into the oven and bake for 22-25 minutes, or until the marshmallows are golden brown. Remove from the oven and serve. Enjoy. 

Sweet Potato Casserole 

SWEET POTATO CASSEROLE 
 

SAVE 
 
PRINT 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
45 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 
 
Author: Pam - For the Love of Cooking 
Recipe type: Side Dish 
Serves: 4 
INGREDIENTS 
4 sweet potatoes, peeled & sliced into thirds 
ј cup brown sugar 
3 tbsp butter 
ј tsp cinnamon 
Pinch of salt 
ј cup pecans, chopped 
1 cup of mini marshmallows 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Coat a small baking dish with cooking spray. 
Place the peeled & sliced sweet potatoes in a pan of cold water then bring to a boil over medium high heat. Reduce heat and simmer until fork tender, about 20 minutes. Drain the sweet potatoes well. Add the brown sugar, butter, cinnamon, and salt then mash together using a potato masher until creamy and smooth. Taste and add more seasonings, to taste, if needed. 
Spread the sweet potatoes in the prepared baking dish evenly. Sprinkle the top with the chopped pecans. 
Spread the miniature marshmallows evenly over the top. Place into the oven and bake for 22-25 minutes, or until the marshmallows are golden brown. Remove from the oven and serve. Enjoy. 


START RECIPE

Slow-Cooker Italian Pork Loin 
0 Ratings 
0 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Italian Pork Loin 

Prep 30 min 
Total 3 hr 35 min 
Servings 8 

Seared pork loin, cannellini beans and fresh veggies make this unexpected slow-cooker dinner perfect for special occasions (and no one will ... ...MORE+ 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
2 cans (15 oz each) Progresso™ cannellini beans, drained, rinsed Save $ 
1 cup thinly sliced yellow onions 
1 red bell pepper, cut into thin slices 
1 tablespoon Italian seasoning 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
2 teaspoons salt 
2 1/2 to 3 1/2 lb boneless pork loin roast, trimmed 
1 can (28 oz) Muir Glen™ organic fire-roasted diced tomatoes, drained 
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese (4 oz) 
1/4cup shredded fresh basil leaves 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Spray 5- to 6-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. Mix beans, onions, bell pepper, Italian seasoning, 1 tablespoon of the oil and 1 teaspoon of the salt in slow cooker. 
2    Rub pork loin with remaining 1 tablespoon oil, then rub in remaining 1 teaspoon salt. Heat 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Cook pork in hot skillet 3 to 5 minutes on both large flat sides or until browned. Transfer to slow cooker. Pour tomatoes over pork. Cover: cook on Low heat setting 3 to 4 hours or until pork is cooked through (145°F in center). 
3   Transfer pork to cutting board: let stand until cool enough to handle. Stir bean mixture in slow cooker: using slotted spoon, transfer to serving platter. Cut pork into 8 slices: place on top of bean mixture on platter, then top with mozzarella cheese. Cover platter with foil 3 to 5 minutes or until cheese melts. Remove foil: top with basil. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE



Slow-Cooker Southwest Shredded Pork 
0 Ratings 
0 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Southwest Shredded Pork 
Prep 25 min 
Total 8 hr 25 min 
Servings 12 

This shredded pork shoulder is a set-it-and-forget-it slow-cooker recipe that’s easy, versatile and packed with Southwest flavor thanks to t... ...MORE+ 
Savings on 3 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
1 can (28 oz) Muir Glen™ organic fire-roasted diced tomatoes, drained 
1 can (15 oz) Progresso™ black beans, drained, rinsed Save $ 
1 can (4.5 oz) Old El Paso™ chopped green chiles Save $ 
2 cups chopped yellow onions 
1 medium red bell pepper, diced 
2 packages (1 oz each) Old El Paso™ original taco seasoning mix Save $ 
1 boneless pork shoulder (3 to 4 lb) 
6 cups hot cooked white rice 
Shredded Colby-Jack cheese, sour cream and lime wedges 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Spray 5-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. In slow cooker, mix tomatoes, beans, chiles, onions, bell pepper and taco seasoning mix. Add pork shoulder: turn to coat. 
2    Cover: cook on Low heat setting 8 to 9 hours or until very tender. Remove pork from slow cooker: when cool enough to handle, shred meat with fork. Stir shredded pork back into mixture in slow cooker. Serve with rice: top with remaining ingredients. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Pulled Pork Stew with Corn 
0 Ratings 
0 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Pulled Pork Stew with Corn 
Prep 20 min 
Total 9 hr 50 min 
Servings 12 

This easy slow-cooker version of red pozole—a hearty, traditional Mexican soup—turns simple shredded pork and corn into a flavorful stew tha... ...MORE+ 
Savings on 3 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
1 can (19 oz) Old El Paso™ red enchilada sauce Save $ 
1 package (1 oz) Old El Paso™ original taco seasoning mix Save $ 
2 tablespoons chili powder 
2 teaspoons dried oregano leaves 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
2 teaspoons salt 
1 boneless pork shoulder (3 to 4 lb) 
1 carton (32 oz) Progresso™ chicken broth Save $ 
1 can (28 oz) Muir Glen™ organic fire-roasted crushed tomatoes, undrained 
1 can (15.25 oz) whole kernel corn, drained 
Sliced radishes, shredded cabbage, diced avocado, crumbled queso fresco, chopped cilantro and lime wedges, as desired 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Spray 5-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. Mix enchilada sauce, taco seasoning mix, chili powder, oregano, cumin and salt in cooker. Add pork shoulder: turn to coat. 
2    Cover: cook on Low heat setting 8 to 9 hours or until very tender. Remove pork from slow cooker: when cool enough to handle, shred pork with fork. Remove 1 cup cooking liquid: place in large bowl. Add shredded pork to bowl: toss to coat. 
3    Meanwhile, discard remaining cooking liquid: wipe out slow cooker. Spray slow cooker with cooking spray. Add broth, tomatoes and corn: stir in pork. Cover: cook on High heat setting 1 hour 30 minutes to 2 hours 30 minutes or until hot. Serve with remaining ingredients. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Apple-Cherry Stuffing 
95 Ratings 
46 Comments
Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Apple-Cherry Stuffing 

Prep 15 min 
Total 8 hr 15 min 
Servings 6

Lots of flavorful stuff in this easy recipe-sweet dried cherries, tart apples and savory onions. 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
1 package (6 ounces) Betty Crocker™ Homestyle Stuffing turkey flavor 
2 medium celery stalks, chopped (1 cup) 
1 medium tart cooking apple, peeled and chopped (1 cup) 
1 medium onion, chopped (1/2 cup) 
1 cup dried cherries 
1/4 cup butter or margarine, melted 
1 cup Progresso™ chicken broth (from 32-ounce carton) Save $ 
6 pork boneless loin chops, about 1/2 inch thick 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Spray inside of 4- to 5-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. 
2    Mix all ingredients except pork. Place half of the stuffing mixture in slow cooker: top with pork. Spoon remaining stuffing mixture over pork. 
3    Cover and cook on low heat setting 6 to 8 hours or until pork is tender. Note: This recipe was tested in slow cookers with heating elements in the side and bottom of the cooker, not in cookers that stand only on a heated base. For slow cookers with just a heated base, follow the manufacturer’s directions for layering ingredients and choosing a temperature. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 

START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Smothered Pork Chops 
23 Ratings 
22 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Smothered Pork Chops 

Prep 40 min 
Total 3 hr 20 min 
Servings 4 

Pork chops, bathed in smoky, bacon-flecked gravy and cooked in the slow cooker until the pork is just done, but still moist and tender are d... ...MORE+ 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
4 bone-in pork chops, about 3/4 inch 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 
4 slices bacon, cut into 1/2-inch pieces 
1 large yellow onion, cut into 1/2-inch thick slices 
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1 1/2 cups Progresso™ chicken broth (from 32-oz carton) Save $ 
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 
2 bay leaves 
2 tablespoons water 
2 tablespoons cornstarch 
1 tablespoon cider vinegar 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Spray 4-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. 
2    Pat pork chops dry with paper towels: season both sides with salt and pepper. 
3    Heat 12-inch skillet over medium heat. Add bacon: cook and stir until browned. Using slotted spoon, transfer bacon to slow cooker. Increase heat of skillet to medium-high: add pork chops to bacon drippings in skillet. Cook about 4 minutes on each side or until browned. Transfer to slow cooker. 
4    Add onions to skillet. Cook and stir about 4 minutes or until softened. Add garlic: cook and stir 1 minute. Transfer to slow cooker. Add broth, Worcestershire sauce and bay leaves. Cover: cook on Low heat setting 2 hours or until pork chops are just done, but still moist. 
5    Remove pork chops to serving tray: cover with foil to keep warm. Increase slow cooker to High heat setting. 
6    In small bowl, beat water, cornstarch and vinegar with whisk. Stir into liquid in slow cooker. Cover: cook 20 to 25 minutes or until slightly thickened. 
7    Ladle sauce over pork chops: serve immediately. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 

START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Pork Chops 
23 Ratings 
16 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Pork Chops 

Prep 10 min 
Total 8 hr 10 min 
Servings 6 

Jump-start a deliciously easy dinner with a can of Progresso® soup! 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
4 bone-in pork loin chops (about 2 lb) 
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1 can (18 oz) Progresso™ Vegetable Classics creamy mushroom soup Save $ 
1 cup uncooked regular long-grain white rice 
2 tablespoons cornstarch 
2 tablespoons water 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Sprinkle pork chops with pepper. Place pork chops in 3 1/2- to 4-quart slow cooker. Sprinkle with garlic. Pour soup over pork chops. 
2    Cover: cook on Low heat setting 7 to 8 hours or until the pork is fork-tender. Remove pork chops from slow cooker and place on plate: cover to keep warm. 
3    About 30 minutes before serving, make rice as directed on package. Stir together cornstarch and water. Stir cornstarch mixture into mushroom sauce in slow cooker. Heat in slow cooker 5 minutes. Serve sauce over pork chops and rice. 

 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Apple Chutney 
31 Ratings 
13 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Apple Chutney 

Prep 20 min 
Total 4 hr 20 min 
Servings 4 

Pork and apples have long been perfect partners. Dried cranberries add color and tartness. 
Ingredients 
4 center-cut bone-in pork loin chops, 1 inch thick (about 2 lb), trimmed of fat 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 
6 tablespoons packed brown sugar 
2 tablespoons cider vinegar 
1 teaspoon ground ginger 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon ground red pepper (cayenne) 
1/4 cup sweetened dried cranberries 
2 medium baking apples, peeled, chopped (2 cups) 
Steps 

1    Spray 3- to 4-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. Sprinkle pork with salt and pepper: place in cooker. 
2    In small bowl, mix brown sugar, vinegar, ginger, cinnamon, red pepper and cranberries. Spoon over pork in cooker: top with apples. 
3    Cover: cook on Low heat setting 4 hours to 4 hours 30 minutes. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Vegetable Medley 
13 Ratings 
12 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Vegetable Medley 

Prep 20 min 
Total 3 hr 30 min 
Servings 4 

Succulent slow-cooked pork and vegetables make a simple, hearty supper for four. 
Ingredients 
1 1/2 teaspoons seasoned salt 
1 teaspoon garlic-pepper blend 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
4 boneless pork loin chops, 1/2 inch thick (about 1 lb) 
1 cup ready-to-eat baby-cut carrots 
4 small red potatoes, cut in half 
1 onion, cut into thin wedges 
1 small yellow summer squash, thinly sliced 
1/4 cup chopped fresh basil 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    In very small bowl, mix salt and garlic-pepper blend. Sprinkle half of seasoning mixture over pork. In 12-inch skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil over medium-high heat. Cook pork chops in oil about 4 minutes, turning once, just until browned. 
2    Spray 4- to 5-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. Place pork chops in slow cooker: top with carrots, potatoes and onion. 
3    Cover, cook on Low heat setting 3 to 4 hours. 
4    In medium bowl, mix squash, basil, remaining 1 tablespoon oil and remaining half of seasoning mixture: spoon on top of vegetable mixture in slow cooker. Increase heat setting to High. Cover: cook 10 to 15 minutes longer or until squash is crisp-tender. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Cranberry-Cornbread Stuffing 
9 Ratings 
6 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Cranberry-Cornbread Stuffing 

Prep 10 min 
Total 4 hr 10 min 
Servings 6 

Bring the flavors of fall to your table with a pork chop dinner featuring colorful cranberries and comforting stuffing. 
Ingredients 
6 boneless pork loin chops, about 1 inch thick (about 2 1/4 lb) 
2 teaspoons seasoned salt 
1/2 bag (16-oz size) cornbread stuffing (3 cups) 
1/2 cup sweetened dried cranberries 
1/2 medium apple, chopped (1/2 cup) 
1/2 medium onion, chopped (1/4 cup) 
1/4 cup chopped pecans 
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons water 
1/4 cup butter or margarine, melted 
1/2 cup cranberry relish or sauce 
Steps 

1    Place pork chops in large resealable food-storage plastic bag. Add seasoned salt: shake bag to coat pork. 
2    Spray 5- to 6-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. In cooker, mix remaining ingredients except cranberry relish. Arrange pork chops on stuffing mixture. 
3    Cover: cook on Low heat setting 4 to 5 hours. Serve pork and stuffing with cranberry relish. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Apple Butter and Potatoes 
1 Ratings 
1 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Apple Butter and Potatoes 

Prep 30 min 
Total 6 hr 30 min 
Servings 4 

Chop up your pork chop for a family friendly slow-cooker meal that comes together in a snap. 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
1 1/2 lb boneless pork chops or pork loin, cut into 1-inch pieces 
1 package (1 oz) Old El Paso™ fajita seasoning mix Save $ 
1/2 cup apple butter 
1/4 cup Dijon mustard 
1 1/2 lb baby red potatoes 
4 oz cream cheese, softened and cut into 1-inch pieces 
1 package (5 oz) fresh baby spinach 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    In medium bowl, mix pork, fajita seasoning mix, apple butter and mustard. Toss to coat. 
2    Spray 5-quart oval slow cooker with cooking spray. Carefully place pork up side of cooker, making sure to keep sauce off side of cooker to prevent burning. 
3    Place potatoes in bottom of slow cooker. Cover and cook on Low heat setting 6 hours. 
4    Transfer pork and potatoes with slotted spoon to plate. If desired, cut potatoes into bite-size pieces. Cover with foil to keep warm. 
5    Increase slow cooker to High heat setting, and add cream cheese. Stir until melted. 
6    Add spinach: stir until slightly wilted. Serve pork and potatoes with spinach mixture. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 

START RECIPE

Slow-Cooker Pork Chop Supper 
70 Ratings 
19 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Pork Chop Supper 

Prep 15 min 
Total 6 hr 30 min 
Servings 6 

Got 15 minutes? Start a slow-cooked supper of pork chops or pork loin and red potatoes in a creamy mushroom sauce. Sliced mushrooms and froz... ...MORE+ 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
6 pork loin or rib chops, 1/2 inch thick 
6 medium red potatoes (about 1 1/2 lb), cut into eighths 
1 can (10 3/4 oz) condensed cream of mushroom soup 
1 jar (4.5 oz) sliced mushrooms, drained Save $ 
2 tablespoons dry white wine or chicken broth 
1/4 teaspoon dried thyme leaves 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
3 tablespoons Gold Medal™ all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon diced pimientos (from 2-oz jar) 
2 cups frozen sweet peas, rinsed, drained 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Cook pork chops in skillet 2 to 4 minutes, turning once, until brown. 
2    Spray 4- to 5-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. Place potatoes in cooker. In medium bowl, mix soup, mushrooms, wine, thyme, garlic powder, Worcestershire sauce and flour. Spoon half of the soup mixture over potatoes. Place pork on potatoes: cover with remaining soup mixture. 
3    Cover: cook on Low heat setting 6 to 7 hours. 
4    Remove pork from cooker: keep warm. Stir pimientos and peas into cooker. Cover: cook on Low heat setting about 15 minutes longer or until peas are tender. Serve with pork. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Cheesy Corn Bread Stuffing 
53 Ratings 
2 Comments 
Slow-Cooker Pork Chops with Cheesy Corn Bread Stuffing 

Prep 15 min 
Total 6 hr 15 min 
Servings 6 

Corn bread stuffing is prepared alongside pork chops in a satisfying slow-cooked supper. 
Ingredients 
6 pork boneless loin chops, about 3/4 inch thick (2 pounds) 
1 teaspoon peppered seasoned salt 
1 bag (16 oz) corn bread stuffing mix (6 cups) 
1 medium onion, chopped (1/2 cup) 
1/2 cup chopped red or green bell pepper 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme leaves 
2 1/2 cups water 
1 cup finely shredded Cheddar cheese (4 oz) 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Spray 12-inch nonstick skillet with cooking spray. Sprinkle pork chops with peppered seasoned salt. Cook pork in skillet over medium heat 5 to 6 minutes, turning occasionally, until brown on both sides. 
2    Spray 5- to 6-quart slow cooker with cooking spray. Mix remaining ingredients except cheese in cooker. Arrange pork on stuffing, layering as necessary. 
3    Cover and cook on Low heat setting 5 to 6 hours. 
4    Remove pork from cooker. Stir cheese into stuffing in cooker until melted. Serve pork with stuffing. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 

START RECIPE


Skinny Mini Chocolate Cheesecakes 
37 Ratings 
16 Comments 
Skinny Mini Chocolate Cheesecakes 

Prep 20 min 
Total 2 hr 25 min 
Servings 12 

57% less fat • 61% less sat fat • 37% fewer calories than the original recipe. Tempt your tastebuds with a chocolaty cheesecake that's easie... ...MORE+ 
Ingredients 
Cheesecakes 
12 foil baking cups 
2 thin chocolate wafer cookies (from 9-oz package), crushed (2/3 cup) 
12 oz 1/3-less-fat cream cheese (Neufchâtel), softened 
2/3 cup sugar 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
1/4 cup unsweetened baking cocoa 
1 whole egg 
1 egg white 
1 oz bittersweet or semisweet baking chocolate, melted 
Topping 
1/3 cup fat-free hot fudge topping 
Fresh raspberries, if desired 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 325°F. Place foil baking cup in each of 12 regular-size muffin cups. With back of spoon, firmly press slightly less than 1 tablespoon cookie crumbs in bottom of each foil cup. 
2    In large bowl, beat cream cheese with electric mixer on medium speed until creamy. Beat in sugar and vanilla until fluffy. Beat in cocoa. Beat in whole egg and egg white until well blended. Stir in melted chocolate. Divide cheese mixture evenly among crumb-lined foil cups. 
3    Bake 28 to 32 minutes or until set. Cool in pan on cooling rack 15 minutes. Remove cheesecakes from pan: cool 15 minutes longer. Refrigerate about 1 hour or until chilled. 
4    To serve, carefully remove foil baking cups. Spread fudge topping on cheesecakes. Garnish with raspberries. Store cheesecakes covered in refrigerator. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Skinny Pineapple Upside-Down Cake 
17 Ratings 
16 Comments 
Skinny Pineapple Upside-Down Cake 

Prep 10 min 
Total 1 hr 10 min 
Servings 9 

Bake a classic dessert, healthified style! Rich and caramely pineapple teams up with yellow cake mix for a great retro dessert. 
Ingredients 
1/2 cup packed brown sugar 
9 slices pineapple in juice (from 20-oz can), 1/4 cup juice reserved 
9 maraschino cherries without stems 
1 box Betty Crocker™ SuperMoist™ yellow cake mix 
1/3 cup canola oil 
1 1/4 cups 1% milk 
1 egg 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 350°F. Spray 9-inch square pan with cooking spray. Sprinkle brown sugar in pan. Arrange pineapple slices over brown sugar. Drizzle with reserved juice. Place cherry in center of each pineapple slice. 
2    In medium bowl, beat remaining ingredients with electric mixer on low speed 30 seconds, scraping bowl constantly. Beat on high speed 2 minutes, scraping bowl occasionally. Pour batter over pineapple and cherries. 
3    Bake 50 to 55 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean and top is golden brown. Run knife around inside edges of pan. Immediately place heatproof serving plate upside down over pan: turn plate and pan over. Leave pan over cake 3 minutes so brown sugar mixture can drizzle over cake: remove pan. Serve warm. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 

START RECIPE


Key Lime Magic Bars 
21 Ratings 
16 Comments 
Key Lime Magic Bars 

Prep 15 min 
Total 1 hr 35 min 
Servings 16 

Greek yogurt lightens up this tasty, tangy twist on traditional magic bars. 
Cindy Rahe 
Ingredients 
9 graham cracker rectangles, crushed to about 1 1/2 cups crumbs 
1/2 cup old-fashioned or quick-cooking oats, coarsely ground 
1/4 cup melted coconut oil (or butter) 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 cup canned sweetened condensed milk (not evaporated) 
1 container (5.3 oz) Yoplait® Greek 100 protein Key lime yogurt 
2 teaspoons grated lime peel 
1 tablespoon lime juice 
1 1/2 cups shredded unsweetened coconut 
1/2 cup white vanilla baking chips 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 350° F. Line 8-inch square pan with cooking parchment paper: spray with cooking spray. 
2    In small bowl, stir together graham cracker crumbs, ground oats, melted coconut oil, sugar and salt. Press mixture evenly in bottom of pan. 
3    In medium bowl, beat condensed milk, yogurt, lime peel and lime juice with whisk. Stir in coconut and white chips. Spread mixture over graham cracker base. 
4    Bake 20 to 25 minutes or until set and just golden around edges. Cool completely on cooling rack, about 1 hour. Cut into 4 rows by 4 rows. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Skinny Carrot Cake 
36 Ratings 
10 Comments 
Skinny Carrot Cake 

Prep 30 min 
Total 2 hr 10 min 
Servings 16 

53% fewer calories • 77% less sat fat • 73% less fat than the original recipe. Wonderful flavor remains while smart substitutions cut calori... ...MORE+ 
Ingredients 
Cake 
1/2 cup fat-free egg product 
1/3 cup canola oil 
1/3 cup canned pumpkin (not pumpkin pie mix) 
1/4 cup fat-free (skim) milk 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup Gold Medal™ all-purpose flour 
1/2 cup Gold Medal™ whole wheat flour 
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar 
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
2 cups shredded carrots (about 4 medium) 
Frosting 
4 oz (half of 8-oz package) 1/3-less-fat cream cheese (Neufchâtel), softened 
2 tablespoons butter or no-trans-fat 68% vegetable oil spread stick, softened 
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla 
3 cups powdered sugar 
1/2 to 2 teaspoons fat-free (skim) milk 
1/3 cup chopped pecans 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 350°F. Spray bottoms only of two 8-inch round cake pans with cooking spray. In large bowl, mix egg product, oil, pumpkin, 1/4 cup milk and 1 teaspoon vanilla with electric mixer on low speed until well blended. 
2    Add all remaining cake ingredients except carrots. Beat on low speed 30 seconds or until well blended. Stir in carrots. Pour batter evenly into pans. 
3    Bake 28 to 33 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes. Carefully run knife around sides of pans to loosen: remove from pans to cooling racks. Cool completely, about 1 hour. 
4    In medium bowl, beat cream cheese and butter with electric mixer on medium speed until creamy. On low speed, beat in 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla until well blended. Beat in powdered sugar, 1 cup at a time, until smooth. If necessary, add milk, 1/2 teaspoon at a time, until frosting is desired consistency. Spread frosting between cake layers and on top. Sprinkle with pecans. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 

START RECIPE

Skinny Tres Leches Cake 
17 Ratings 
10 Comments 
Skinny Tres Leches Cake 

Prep 15 min 
Total 1 hr 55 min 
Servings 15 

62% less fat • 62% less sat fat • 20% fewer calories than the original recipe. This classic is still soaked in three milks, just healthier m... ...MORE+ 
Ingredients 
1 box Betty Crocker™ SuperMoist™ yellow cake mix 
1 1/4 cups water 
1 tablespoon canola oil 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
2 whole eggs 
3 egg whites 
1 can (14 oz) fat-free sweetened condensed milk (not evaporated) 
1 can (12 oz) evaporated fat-free milk 
1/2 cup fat-free (skim) milk or fat-free half-and-half 
1 container (8 oz) Cool Whip™ lite frozen whipped topping or Cool Whip™ fat-free frozen whipped topping, thawed 
Sliced fresh strawberries, if desired 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 350°F (325°F for dark or nonstick pan). Spray bottom only of 13x9-inch pan with cooking spray. 
2    In large bowl, beat cake mix, water, oil, vanilla, whole eggs and egg whites with electric mixer on low speed 30 seconds, then on medium speed 2 minutes, scraping bowl occasionally. Pour into pan. 
3    Bake 29 to 35 minutes or until edges are golden brown and toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Let stand 5 minutes. Poke top of hot cake all over with fork or wooden skewer, wiping fork occasionally to reduce sticking. 
4    In medium bowl, stir condensed milk, evaporated milk and skim milk until blended. Slowly pour evenly over top of cake. Cover: refrigerate about 1 hour or until mixture is absorbed into cake. 
5    Spread whipped topping over cake. Refrigerate until serving time. Garnish with strawberries. Store in refrigerator. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Skinny Chocolate Frosted Cupcakes 
21 Ratings 
3 Comments 
Skinny Chocolate Frosted Cupcakes 

Prep 15 min 
Total 1 hr 20 min 
Servings 12 

65% less sat fat • 46% fewer calories • 67% less fat than the original recipe. Serving a healthy dessert at your next party? Let them eat cu... ...MORE+ 
Ingredients 
Cupcakes 
1 1/4 cups Gold Medal™ all-purpose flour 
2/3 cup granulated sugar 
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/2 cup fat-free (skim) milk 
1/3 cup unsalted butter or no-trans-fat 68% vegetable oil spread stick, softened 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
3 egg whites 
Frosting 
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar 
1/4 cup unsweetened baking cocoa 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter or no-trans-fat 68% vegetable oil spread stick, softened 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
1 to 3 tablespoons fat-free (skim) milk 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 350°F. Place paper baking cup in each of 12 regular-size muffin cups. 
2    In medium bowl, beat all cupcake ingredients except egg whites with electric mixer on low speed 30 seconds: beat on medium speed 1 minute. 
3    Add egg whites: beat on medium speed 1 minute. Divide batter evenly among muffin cups. 
4    Bake 28 to 32 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean and tops just begin to brown. Cool 2 minutes: remove from pan to cooling rack. Cool completely, about 30 minutes. 
5    In medium bowl, mix powdered sugar, cocoa, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 teaspoons vanilla and 1 tablespoon of the milk with electric mixer on low speed. Gradually beat in just enough of remaining milk to make frosting smooth and spreadable. Spread frosting over cupcakes. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 

START RECIPE

Skinny Banana Pudding 
17 Ratings 
3 Comments 
Skinny Banana Pudding 

Prep 20 min 
Total 8 hr 20 min 
Servings 12 

32% fewer calories • 87% less fat • 90% less sat fat than the original recipe. Go bananas with a made-over dessert favorite that won’t pack ... ...MORE+ 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
3 cups fat-free (skim) milk 
2 boxes (4-serving size each) French vanilla instant pudding and pie filling mix 
4 containers (6 oz each) Yoplait® Original yogurt French vanilla Save $ 
1 container (8 oz) Cool Whip™ fat-free frozen whipped topping, thawed 
48 reduced-fat vanilla wafer cookies 
6 small bananas, sliced 
Additional banana slices for garnish, if desired 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    In large bowl, beat milk and pudding mix with electric mixer on low speed until well mixed: beat in yogurt. Fold in whipped topping. 
2    Place 24 vanilla wafers in a single layer in ungreased 13x9-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish. Spoon half of the pudding mixture over wafers. Place 6 sliced bananas over pudding mixture. Spoon remaining pudding mixture over bananas. Arrange remaining 24 vanilla wafers over top of pudding. 
3    Cover: refrigerate at least 3 hours but no longer than 8 hours. Just before serving, garnish with additional banana slices. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Skinny Chocolate-Almond Pudding Cake 
77 Ratings 
4 Comments 
Skinny Chocolate-Almond Pudding Cake 

Prep 20 min 
Total 1 hr 30 min 
Servings 9 

40% less fat • 75% less sat fat • 27% fewer calories than the original recipe. Gooey, yummy, chocolaty—canola oil and skim milk are two of t... ...MORE+ 
Ingredients 
1 cup Gold Medal™ all-purpose flour 
1/2 cup granulated sugar 
1/4 cup chopped almonds, toasted* 
1/4 cup unsweetened baking cocoa 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/2 cup fat-free (skim) milk 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
1/4 teaspoon almond extract 
3/4 cup packed brown sugar 
1/4 cup unsweetened baking cocoa 
1 3/4 cups water 
Vanilla reduced-fat ice cream, if desired 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 350°F. Spray 8-inch square (2-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray. In medium bowl, mix flour, granulated sugar, almonds, 1/4 cup cocoa, the baking powder and salt. Stir in milk, oil, vanilla and almond extract until blended. Spread batter in pan. 
2    In 1-quart saucepan, mix brown sugar and 1/4 cup cocoa with wire whisk. Stir in water. Heat just to boiling, stirring occasionally. Pour over batter. 
3    Bake 35 to 40 minutes or until center is set. Cool 30 minutes before serving. 
4    To serve, spoon warm cake into individual dessert bowls: spoon pudding from baking dish over cake. Serve with ice cream. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Butterscotch Mousse Parfait 
0 Ratings 
0 Comments 
Butterscotch Mousse Parfait 

Prep 5 min 
Total 0 min 
Servings 1 

Layer butterscotch pudding, brownie pieces and pretzels for an irresistible sweet and salty treat. 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
1 Fiber One™ 90 calorie chocolate peanut butter brownie Save $ 
2 tablespoons whipped topping 
1/2 fat-free, sugar-free butterscotch pudding 
3 pretzel sticks 
Steps 

1    Cut a chocolate peanut butter brownie into bite-sized pieces. Then, place half the brownie bites into the bottom of a bowl, layering on butterscotch pudding and whipped topping. Repeat with another layer of each. Add pretzels and enjoy. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE

Skinny Cream Cheese Brownies 
0 Ratings 
0 Comments 
Skinny Cream Cheese Brownies 

Prep 15 min 
Total 1 hr 55 min 
Servings 24 

50% less fat • 50% less sat fat • 23% fewer calories than the original recipe. Rich and gooey just got a makeover for a treat that tastes a... ...MORE+ 
Ingredients 
Filling 
1 package (8 oz) 1/3-less-fat cream cheese (Neufchâtel), softened 
1/3 cup sugar 
2 egg whites 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Brownies 
1 box (1 lb 2.3 oz) Betty Crocker™ fudge brownie mix 
1/4 cup canola oil or unsweetened applesauce 
1/4 cup water 
4 egg whites 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
1/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 350°F. Spray bottom only of 13x9-inch pan with cooking spray. In medium bowl, beat cream cheese with electric mixer on medium speed until smooth. Beat in remaining filling ingredients until well blended. 
2    In large bowl, stir brownie mix, oil, water, 4 egg whites and 1 teaspoon vanilla with spoon until well blended. Spread in pan. 
3    Spoon filling mixture over brownie batter in pan. Cut through filling mixture and batter with knife several times for marbled design. Sprinkle with chocolate chips. 
4    Bake 28 to 32 minutes or until toothpick inserted in brownie 2 inches from side of pan comes out clean or almost clean. Cool completely, about 1 hour. For 24 brownies, cut into 6 rows by 4 rows. Store covered in refrigerator. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Easy Oven-Baked Chicken Tacos 
5 Ratings 
5 Comments 
Easy Oven-Baked Chicken Tacos 

Prep 20 min 
Total 30 min 
Servings 10 

These cheese- and bean-stuffed tacos are our new favorite way to turn a rotisserie chicken into a super-easy dinner that serves up to 10. 
Savings on 3 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
1 package (4.7 oz) Old El Paso™ Stand ‘N Stuff™ taco shells 
2 1/2 cups shredded deli rotisserie chicken 
1 package (0.85 oz) Old El Paso™ chicken taco seasoning mix Save $ 
1/4 cup water 
1 can (4.5 oz) Old El Paso™ chopped green chiles Save $ 
1 can (16 oz) Old El Paso™ refried beans Save $ 
1 1/4 cups shredded Mexican cheese blend (5 oz) 
Diced avocado, chopped tomato, green onions, shredded lettuce, salsa and sour cream, if desired 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 400°F. Spray bottom of 13x9-inch (3-quart) baking dish with cooking spray. Place taco shells standing up and together in dish: set aside. 
2    In 10-inch nonstick skillet, cook chicken, taco seasoning mix, water and chiles over medium heat 5 to 6 minutes, stirring frequently, until chicken is heated through. Remove from heat. 
3    To assemble, spread about 2 tablespoons refried beans in bottom of each shell. Top each with heaping 1/4 cup chicken mixture and 2 tablespoons shredded cheese. Bake 5 to 7 minutes or until cheese is melted. Top with remaining ingredients, if desired. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Easy Chicken Gyros Taco Boats™ 
0 Ratings 
0 Comments 
Easy Chicken Gyros Taco Boats™ 

Prep 40 min 
Total 50 min 
Servings 8 

Precooked and shredded chicken makes a quick and easy filling for this fresh-tasting version of the classic take-out sandwich. 
Savings on 1 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
Tzatziki Sauce 
1/2 medium cucumber, peeled, seeded and shredded 
3/4 cup Yoplait® Greek plain yogurt 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley 
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice 
1 clove garlic, finely chopped 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon black pepper 
Cucumber Salsa 
1/2 cucumber, peeled and diced 
1 cup grape tomatoes, quartered 
1 small red onion, halved and thinly sliced 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 
Chicken Filling and Boats 
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
5 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1 teaspoon dried oregano leaves 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon black pepper 
2 3/4 cups shredded cooked chicken 
1 package Old El Paso™ Taco Boats™ soft flour tortillas Save $ 
Steps 

1    Heat oven to 325°F. 
2    Squeeze shredded cucumber with hands to remove excess water. In small bowl, mix all Tzatziki Sauce ingredients. 
3    In another medium bowl, toss Cucumber Salsa ingredients. 
4    In 10-inch skillet, heat oil over low heat. Add garlic, oregano, cumin, salt and pepper. Cook and stir 1 to 2 minutes or until garlic is fragrant but not browned. Remove 2 tablespoons of the flavored oil: set aside. Add chicken: toss to coat. Increase heat to medium: cook about 3 minutes or until chicken is heated through. 
5    Brush insides of boats with reserved flavored oil. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake 5 to 7 minutes or until light golden and warmed. 
6    Spoon chicken filling evenly in warmed boats. Top with cucumber salsa and tzatziki sauce. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE


Crispy Flour Tortilla Chicken Tacos 
0 Ratings 
0 Comments 
Crispy Flour Tortilla Chicken Tacos 

Prep 20 min 
Total 20 min 
Servings 8 

This simple chicken taco is quick to prepare and provides that extra crunch of the new Old El Paso™ crispy flour tortilla shells! 
Savings on 2 ingredient(s) 
Enter Zip to change location: 
Ingredients 
2 cups shredded cooked chicken (about 10 oz) 
1 package (0.85 oz) Old El Paso™ chicken taco seasoning mix Save $ 
1/2 cup water 
1 box (8 count) Old El Paso™ crispy flour tortilla shell, heated as directed on box Save $ 
1 cup shredded Colby-Monterey Jack cheese blend (4 oz) 
3/4 cup guacamole 
2 medium plum (Roma) tomatoes, chopped 
Powered by Chicory 
Steps 

1    Heat 10-inch nonstick skillet over medium heat. Stir in chicken, taco seasoning mix and water: cook 3 to 4 minutes, stirring occasionally, until chicken is heated through and sauce has thickened slightly. 
2    Divide chicken mixture among heated shells: top with cheese, guacamole and chopped tomatoes. 

Expert Tips 
 Information 


START RECIPE



Ma Po Tofu 
Tofu San Francisco Bay Area Asian +12 
Chinese  Bay Leaf  Cilantro  Ginger  Ground Pork Pork  Garlic  Scallions  Dinner  Weeknight Dinner Main Dish  Medium 
Save (122) Rate 
6 to 8 servings (about 3 quarts of sauce) Medium  
 (17) Total: About 1 hr 10 mins, plus 2 hrs marinating and 2 hrs cooking time 
PREVIOUS: 
Saag with Tofu 
NEXT: 
Asian-y Tofu Scramble 
INGREDIENTS (23) 
For the marinade: 
1 (4-pound) boneless pork shoulder, untrimmed and cut into 1-inch cubes 
1 cup Shaoxing wine 
1/2 cup Chinese black vinegar, plus more as needed 
For the sauce: 
2 ounces dried arbol chiles 
1/4 cup star anise pods 
2 tablespoons Sichuan peppercorns 
2/3 cup packed dark brown sugar, plus more as needed 
1/3 cup kosher salt 
2 cups water 
1 bay leaf 
1 cardamom pod 
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon distilled white vinegar, plus more as needed 
1/4 cup minced fresh garlic (about 1/2 medium head) 
1/4 cup peeled and minced fresh ginger (about 1 [3- to 4-inch] piece) 
3 tablespoons tomato paste 
2 tablespoons fermented black beans, finely chopped 
2 tablespoons soy sauce, plus more as needed 
4 ounces beech mushrooms, stems trimmed 
Chile oil, as needed 
To serve: 
2 (1-pound) packages soft tofu, drained and cut into 1-inch cubes 
2 tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh cilantro 
2 scallions, thinly sliced (white and light green parts only) 
Steamed white rice 
 
Ma po tofu, sometimes translated as “pockmarked-face lady’s tofu,” is a spicy tofu dish slathered with a rich, savory sauce of chiles, minced meat, and spices, almost like Chinese chili con carne, with the numbing power of Sichuan peppercorns. At Mission Chinese Food in San Francisco, they marinate a hunk of pork shoulder, grind it, stew it up in a fiery and fragrant blend of freshly ground spices, and mix in some tofu just before serving. Mission Chinese Food’s chef, Danny Bowien, advises serving leftover sauce over sautéed Chinese long beans or eggplant. 

What to buy: Chinese black vinegar is a robustly flavored rice vinegar that can be found at most Asian markets. Make sure it is not labeled “sweetened black vinegar. 

Fermented black beans, known as douchi in Chinese, are soybeans that have been salted and fermented, turning them black, soft, and dry. These savory, salty, and somewhat sweet and bitter beans are used as a flavoring agent throughout Chinese cooking. Fermented black beans can be found in the dry goods section of most Asian markets. 

If you can’t find soft tofu, substitute firm, but do not use silken tofu, as its soft texture will disintegrate into the sauce. 

Beech mushrooms, also called clamshell or hon-shimeji, originate from Southeast Asia and are popular in Japan. These small, white or brown capped fungi are sweet and nutty and keep their shape nicely when cooked, lending themselves well to stews, soups, and sauces. They can be found at many Asian grocers, though sliced button or baby bella mushrooms can be substituted if needed. 

Special equipment: You’ll need a meat grinder for this recipe. We used the special attachments for a KitchenAid stand mixer. 

You’ll also need a spice or coffee grinder. We used this Krups coffee grinder with good results. 

Game plan: Since this recipe makes 12 cups of meat sauce and you only need 3 cups for the ma po tofu, freeze the leftovers for a simple weeknight meal. 

Adapted from Chef Danny Bowien 
INSTRUCTIONS 
For the marinade: 
1Place all ingredients in a large bowl and stir to evenly coat the pork. Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 hours and up to 4 hours. 
For the sauce: 

1Heat the oven to 400°F and arrange a rack in the middle. Place the chiles in a single layer on a baking sheet and toast until slightly darkened and fragrant, about 3 to 5 minutes. Let cool completely. Using a spice grinder or clean coffee grinder, grind the chiles into a fine powder. Transfer to a medium bowl. Grind the star anise pods along with the Sichuan peppercorns into a fine powder and add to the chiles: set aside.
2When the pork is ready, set a colander over a large bowl and transfer the pork and marinade mixture to the colander. Set the marinade aside. Using a meat grinder fitted with a coarse (1/4-inch) dye, grind the pork into a large Dutch oven or a heavy-bottomed pot with a tightfitting lid.
3Add the ground spice mixture, reserved marinade, brown sugar, salt, water, bay leaf, and cardamom pod to the ground pork and stir to combine. Bring to a simmer over medium-high heat, then reduce the heat to medium and simmer, stirring occasionally, until the meat is no longer pink, about 15 minutes. Reduce the heat to low, cover, and simmer until the flavors have melded, about 2 hours, stirring every half hour. Meanwhile, place the vinegar, garlic, ginger, tomato paste, fermented black beans, and soy sauce in a medium bowl and stir to combine: set aside.
4When the pork is ready, remove from heat, add the reserved black bean mixture and the mushrooms, and stir to combine. Taste and season with chile oil, additional soy sauce, brown sugar, and black or white vinegar as needed to balance the flavors. (At this point, you can cool the sauce completely, then transfer it to a container with a tightfitting lid and freeze it for up to 1 month.) 
To serve: 

1Place 3 cups of the sauce in a large frying pan over medium-high heat until simmering. Add the tofu, stir gently to combine, and simmer until the tofu is heated through, about 3 minutes. 
2Transfer to a serving bowl, garnish with cilantro and scallions, and serve with steamed rice. 


START RECIPE

Sous Vide Egg and Bacon Pizza 
American Eggs Bacon Baking Steel +12 
Pizza  Medium  Sous Vide  Fresh Mozzarella Pizza Dough  Parsley  Tomato Sauce  Brunch Dinner  Salt  Flour  Black Pepper 
Save (0) Rate 
1 12-inch pizza Medium  
 (0) Total: 1 hr (inlcudes preheating time) Active: 20 min 
PREVIOUS: 
The Perfect Sous Vide Steak 
NEXT: 
Bacon and Egg Pizza 
INGREDIENTS (8) 
1 ball fresh pizza dough 
flour for dusting 
4 ounces fresh mozzarella, torn 
3 or 4 slices bacon, uncooked 
1 or 2 sous-vide or poached eggs 
fine sea salt 
freshly cracked black pepper 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
 
The egg-and-bacon combo is more traditionally seen at breakfast, but putting them on a pizza makes a meal suitable at any hour of the day. Sous vide circulators have dropped a lot in price since they were first introduced to the consumer market, and they do make absolutely perfect food, from just-runny-enough eggs to on-point steaks, amazingly easy every time, but if you don’t have one, you can always poach your eggs in a more traditional manner for this pizza. (Alternatively, try this sous vide method that doesn’t require special equipment—or even hack your slow cooker if you’re intrepid and interested enough to do so). 

This recipe was written for a Baking Steel, which is another special tool, true, but it makes achieving perfect pizza a cinch. No matter what particular methods you use, since there are so few ingredients here, make sure you buy (or make) the best quality bacon, eggs, cheese, and pizza dough you can find. If you need a pizza peel, you can pick one up for under $20 here. 

For more Baking Steel recipes, get this Hot Hawaiian Island Pizza recipe and this Chicken Parmesan Sandwich recipe. 

from: Baking with Steel: The Revolutionary New Approach to Perfect Pizza, Bread, and More by Andris Lagsdin with Jessie Oleson Moore 
WHAT TO BUY 
Baking Steel 
The Baking Steel the way to get perfect pizza every time. It's more conductive than a traditional pizza stone, so it cooks faster and more evenly, resulting in perfect crispy crust. 

Buy Now › 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Preheat the Baking Steel in your oven at 500 degrees for 45 minutes. 
2Stretch your dough into a 12-inch circle (oblong or oval is also fine). Lightly flour your peel and place the dough on top. 
3Set the oven to Broil. 
4Evenly distribute the mozzarella and bacon across the top of the pizza, leaving about 1 inch around the perimeter for the crust. 
5Use a generously floured pizza peel to launch your pizza onto the Baking Steel and bake under the broiler for 2 minutes. 
6After 2 minutes, open the oven and use your pizza peel to give the pizza a 180-degree turn. Turn off the broiler, set the oven to its highest temperature,  and continue cooking for another 1 to 2 minutes or until the cheese has attained the desired brownness. 
7Use your pizza peel to remove the pie from the oven. Slice and serve. 


START RECIPE

Deep-Fried Turkey with Southern Rub 
Turkey Christmas Thanksgiving Southern +8 
Deep-Frying  Frying  Roasting  Holidays Fried Food  Poultry  Main Dish  Medium 
 Save (100) Rate 
10 to 12 servings Medium  
 (21) Total: 2 hrs, plus overnight dry brining time Active: 25 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Turkey Pad See Ew 
NEXT: 
Herb-Roasted Turkey Breast 
INGREDIENTS (8) 
For the rub: 
1/2 cup packed dark brown sugar 
6 tablespoons dry mustard, such as Colman’s 
6 tablespoons kosher salt 
2 teaspoons filé powder 
2 teaspoons hot paprika 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
For the turkey: 
1 (15- to 18-pound) fresh turkey 
Peanut oil for frying (about 4 gallons, see intro) 

Deep-frying a turkey is one of those things that turns you from skeptic to convert the first time you try it. Not only is your bird done in 40 minutes, but it ends up amazingly juicy, not at all greasy, with skin that’s crispy beyond belief. Smearing the turkey with a rub and letting it penetrate overnight is essential. We’ve put together a few more tips on deep-frying a turkey here and here. 

Look for a fresh turkey—they seem to end up crispier and tastier than previously frozen ones. If you’re forced to use a frozen turkey, make sure it’s completely thawed before frying (this will take several days in the refrigerator). Filé is powdered sassafras leaves, a popular spice in the South, especially in Louisiana, where it’s used as a condiment and thickener for gumbo. Here it imparts a slight woodsy flavor to the rub. Look for it in the dried-spices section of grocery stores. And Peanut oil is best for frying because it has a very high smoke point and a neutral flavor. To figure out how much oil to use, try this displacement trick: Before unwrapping your turkey, place it in the frying pot and add enough water to cover it completely. Remove the turkey from the pot and measure the water: That’s how much oil you should use. 

Special equipment: A propane turkey fryer like this one from Bayou Classic was all we needed to make a crisp, succulent turkey. It comes with the base, pot, turkey rack, and thermometer, plus a bunch of accessories. We wore heatproof rubber gloves and safety goggles to protect our hands and eyes while we fried (safety first!). And on that note, it can’t hurt to have an all-purpose fire extinguisher on hand, just in case. 

Game plan: Be sure to give your rubbed turkey a full night in the fridge to allow the flavors to fully penetrate. Also, at frying time, give your oil plenty of time to heat up. It took ours about 40 minutes to come to temperature each time we tested. And be sure to thoroughly read through the instruction booklet that comes with your fryer before use! 

by Regan Burns 
INSTRUCTIONS 
Make the rub: 
1Combine the rub ingredients in a mixing bowl and set aside. 
Rub and cook the turkey: 

1Remove the bag of giblets and the neck from inside the turkey. Reserve in the refrigerator until ready to prepare the gravy. Rinse the turkey inside and out and pat it dry with paper towels. Trim most of the excess fat and skin from the neck and cavity (this allows for better frying). Make a 3-inch-long cut on either side of the turkey through the skin where the leg meets the breast. This will allow the oil to drain away and the thigh meat to cook completely. 
2Place the turkey on a cutting board or baking sheet and coat it evenly with the rub, including inside the cavity. Place the turkey in a plastic bag and allow to rest in the refrigerator overnight. 
3Heat the oil in a turkey fryer until it registers 350°F. (This takes about 40 minutes.) Remove the turkey from the refrigerator and let it sit at room temperature for 30 minutes. Remove it from the bag and lightly blot it with paper towels to remove excess moisture. Place the turkey on the frying rack, drumsticks pointing upward as though it’s doing a headstand. Use the grab hook to very slowly lower the turkey into the heated oil: this takes at least 90 seconds. The oil will boil furiously: this is normal. Wear heatproof gloves and safety goggles, and do not drop the turkey. 
4Once the turkey is completely submerged, remove the hook. Fry for about 3 minutes per pound or until the juices run clear and a thermometer inserted into the inner part of the thigh reads 155°F. 
5Use the grab hook to slowly remove the turkey from the oil, allowing sufficient time for the hot oil to drain away. Place the turkey and rack on a rimmed baking sheet set on the ground, and let them sit a few minutes before moving to allow any extra oil to drain. Let the turkey rest for at least 15 minutes. Remove it from the rack and carve. 


START RECIPE

Vegan Tsuyu Sauce 
Japanese Vegan Sauces Easy Sake +6 
Soy Sauce  Shiitake  Water  Seaweed Dried Mushrooms  Rice Wine 
Save (0) Rate 
Easy  
 (0) Total: 20 min, plus cooling time (overnight) Active: 5 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Tartar Sauce 
NEXT: 
Peanut Sauce 
INGREDIENTS (6) 
60 pieces of dried shiitake 
10 pieces of kombu 
3 liters water 
6 cups sake 
9 cups white soy sauce 
9 cups mirin 
al Information 
Calories 
127 
Fat 
0.31g 
Saturated fat 
0.05g 
Trans fat 
0g 
Carbs 
8.94g 
Fiber 
0.87g 
Sugar 
0.29g 
Protein 
4.37g 
Cholesterol 
0g 
Sodium 
2435.23mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(52 servings) 
Powered by  
 
This umami-rich vegan tsuyu sauce comes from chef Tony Mongeluzzi of Avant Garden. He showed us how to use it in the restaurant’s celery root pasta (perfect for vegetarian Thanksgiving!), but it’s also great as a dipping sauce for dumplings or noodles, or simply for adding rich, deep flavor to lots of vegetarian and vegan dishes. This makes a restaurant-size batch, but you can always freeze any leftovers for later use. If you go that route, try freezing it in ice cube trays and storing the frozen cubes in a plastic bag or other container so you can portion it out easily when you need it. Or, just halve the ingredients, or even cut them down by a third, to maker smaller batches of sauce. 

by Tony Mongeluzzi 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Bring all ingredients to a boil in a large stock pot (or smaller pan, if only making half or one third batch). Turn off heat and let pot sit overnight.
2Strain the solids and keep the liquid to use as a dipping sauce, a base for other sauces, sautéeing vegetables, etc. It’s basically a secret weapon umami-bomb for bringing great flavor to everything it touches. 


START RECIPE

The Great Pumpkin 
American Rum Pumpkin Cocktails Drink +8 
Fall  Easy  Liqueur  Eggs  Lemon Juice Cinnamon  Nutmeg  Sugar 
Save (2) Rate 
1 drink Easy  
 (0) Total: 3 min Active: 3 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Pumpkin Curry 
NEXT: 
Pumpkin Naan 
INGREDIENTS (7) 
1 egg white 
1 tablespoon pumpkin puree 
3/4 ounce lemon juice 
1/2 ounce cinnamon syrup 
1/2 ounce Licor 43 
1 1/2 ounces dark rum, like Ron Zacapa 
fresh nutmeg, for garnish 
al Information 
Calories 
158 
Fat 
0.15g 
Saturated fat 
0.03g 
Trans fat 
0g 
Carbs 
12.42g 
Fiber 
0.51g 
Sugar 
981g 
Protein 
3.13g 
Cholesterol 
0g 
Sodium 
46.94mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(1 servings) 
Powered by  
 
This pumpkin pie inspired cocktail from The Rose Club at The Plaza Hotel is a perfect balance of fresh pumpkin puree, cinnamon, and lemon juice, with rum and Licor 43 for a warm kick. If you can’t or don’t want to use the raw egg white in the drink, you can substitute aquafaba for a similar frothy effect that’s vegan. And while you can purchase ready-made cinnamon syrup, it’s easy to make your own with our Cinnamon Syrup recipe. 

NOTE: Licor 43 is a Spanish liqueur made from 43 ingredients, including citrus, fruit juices, vanilla, herbs, and spices. If you have trouble finding it, try substituting the Italian liqueur Tuaca. 

by The Rose Club at The Plaza Hotel 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Add egg white, pumpkin puree, lemon juice, cinnamon syrup, Licor 43, and rum to shaker. Shake once without ice. 
2Add handful or scoop of ice to shaker and shake again, vigorously, for about 15 seconds. 
3Strain into coupe glass and grate fresh nutmeg on top to garnish. 


START RECIPE

Sage Advice 
Thanksgiving American Sage Cocktails +7 
Fall  Easy  Gin  Liqueur  Honey  Drink Sparkling Water 
Save (0) Rate 
1 drink Easy  
 (0) Total: 3 min Active: 3 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Fried Chickpeas with Sage 
NEXT: 
The Great Pumpkin 
INGREDIENTS (6) 
2 ounces sage-infused gin 
1 ounce lemon juice 
1/2 ounce yellow Chartreuse 
1/2 ounce sage honey 
splash of club soda 
sage sprig, for garnish 
al Information 
Calories 
242 
Fat 
0.11g 
Saturated fat 
0.03g 
Trans fat 
0g 
Carbs 
18.2g 
Fiber 
0.11g 
Sugar 
16.92g 
Protein 
0.16g 
Cholesterol 
0g 
Sodium 
3.12mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(1 servings) 
Powered by  
 
This refreshing fall cocktail from The Rose Club at The Plaza Hotel blends sage-infused gin with sage-infused honey for a beautiful autumn flavor, brightened up with lemon juice. Chartreuse lends additional sweet-spicy-herbal notes, and club soda brings a bit of fizz. This would be perfect for Thanksgiving. 

NOTE: You can easily infuse your own gin by adding a few gently bruised or muddled fresh sage leaves to a bottle of gin and letting it steep for at least 2 days. For the sage-infused honey, the process is similar, but takes a bit longer. You’ll want to fill a clean jar about halfway with fresh sage (or a third full with dried sage), then pour in a mild honey and make sure the herbs are fully submerged. Put the lid on and let the honey steep for about a week or two, or until it tastes good to you. 

by The Rose Club at The Plaza Hotel 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Pour sage-infused gin, lemon juice, Chartreuse, and sage honey into a shaker with ice. 
2Shake vigorously for about 15 seconds. 
3Strain into a glass with fresh ice and top with a splash of club soda. Smack the sage sprig reserved for the garnish between your palms to release the aromatic oils, and place in the glass before serving. 


START RECIPE

Maple Ice Cream 
Dessert Ice Cream Maple Syrup +12 
Thanksgiving  Vegetarian  Milk  Dairy  Eggs Cakes  Make Ahead  Holidays  Cream  Fall Custard  Medium 
 Save (143) Rate 
4 cups Medium  
 (13) Total: About 1 hr, plus chilling time Active: 25 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Double Lavender Honey Ice Cream 
NEXT:  
Caramel Ice Cream 
INGREDIENTS (5) 
2/3 cup Grade B maple syrup 
1 3/4 cups heavy cream 
3/4 cup whole milk 
4 large egg yolks 
1/4 teaspoon fine salt 
al Information 
Calories 
231 
Fat 
17.82g 
Saturated fat 
10.59g 
Trans fat 
Carbs 
16.36g 
Fiber 
Sugar 
14.82g 
Protein 
2.52g 
Cholesterol 
132.67mg 
Sodium 
87.62mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(10 servings) 
Powered by  
 
Maple syrup makes pancakes and waffles sweeter, but turn it into ice cream and it’s the perfect mate for a pear tart, apple galette, pumpkin pie or apple pie. 

What to buy: Grade B maple syrup is preferred for this dessert, because of its dark amber color and hearty flavor. Grade A will do in a pinch, but its lighter color and more mellow flavor should be saved for drizzling on breakfast dishes. 

Game plan: For a creamier, more dense texture, spin the ice cream base for a little less time than instructed. 

This recipe was featured as part of our Thanksgiving for Six menu. 

by Kate Ramos 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Prepare an ice water bath by filling a large bowl halfway with ice and water. Heat the maple syrup in a small saucepan over medium heat, simmering until it’s reduced by a quarter, about 5 minutes. Set aside. 
2Heat the cream and milk in a medium saucepan over medium heat until just simmering, about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, whisk the yolks in a medium heatproof bowl until light in color and thickened slightly, about 2 minutes. 
3Once the milk mixture is simmering, remove from heat and pour about 1/2 cup into the yolks, whisking constantly. Return the yolk mixture to the saucepan with the remaining milk mixture and place over medium-low heat. Cook, stirring constantly, until the custard is thick and coats the back of a spoon, about 3 minutes. (When you run your finger through the custard, a line should hold and not run back into itself.) 
4Remove the custard from heat and stir in the maple syrup reduction and salt. Pour the custard through a fine-mesh strainer into a large heatproof bowl and place over the ice bath until chilled, about 40 minutes. Cover and refrigerate overnight. 
5Once the ice cream base is chilled, freeze it in an ice cream maker according to the manufacturer’s instructions. 



START RECIPE
Gabrielle Ruiz’s Citrus Mulled Wine 
Christmas Red Wine Drink Holidays +8 
Wine  Winter  Oranges  Allspice  Cinnamon Cloves  Nutmeg  Star Anise 
Save (0) Rate 
8 to 10 servings  
 (0) Total: 4 hr Active: 10 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Bridget Moynahan's Swedish Meatballs 
NEXT: 
Mulled Wine 
INGREDIENTS (7) 
1/2 teaspoon whole cloves 
1/2 teaspoon whole allspice 
1/2 gallon red burgundy wine 
2 3-inch cinnamon sticks 
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
orange slices 
star anise 
al Information 
Calories 
208 
Fat 
0.14g 
Saturated fat 
0.08g 
Trans fat 
0.0g 
Carbs 
9.83g 
Fiber 
0.53g 
Sugar 
0.26g 
Protein 
0.25g 
Cholesterol 
0g 
Sodium 
0.56mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(8 servings) 
Powered by  
 
A good mulled wine is one of the coziest things you can sip in the cooler months. Crazy Ex-Girlfriend star Gabrielle Ruiz was introduced to mulled wine while on her first trip to England: it’s become a holiday season staple for her, and is likely to become one for you as well, once you taste the warm blend of red wine, orange slices, and sweet spices like cloves, cinnamon, and star anise. 

See more TV stars dish on their favorite holiday foods. 

by Gabrielle Ruiz 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Place cloves, allspice, and star anise in cheesecloth bag or tea ball. 
2Combine cloves and allspice, red wine, cinnamon sticks, and nutmeg in slow cooker. 
3Cook on high 1 hour. Reduce heat and simmer 2-3 hours. 
4Garnish individual servings with orange slices. 


START RECIPE

Bridget Moynahan's Swedish Meatballs 
Christmas Meatballs Dinner Winter +15 
Easy  American  Ground Beef  Beef Stock Sour Cream  Eggs  Butter  Allspice  Ground Pork Onions  Kosher Salt  Holidays  White Bread  Flour Black Pepper 
Save (12) Rate 
20 to 24 meatballs (4 to 6 servings) Easy  
 (0) Total: 50 min Active: 30 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Savory Cheese Cookies 
NEXT: 
Swedish Meatballs 
INGREDIENTS (15) 
For the meatballs: 
1 pound ground beef 
1/4 pound ground por k
3 slices white bread, crusts removed, pulsed in a food processor into bread crumbs 
1/2 cup sour cream 
1 large egg, beaten 
2 tablespoons minced yellow onion 
1/8 teaspoon ground allspice 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter 
For the gravy: 
2 cups beef stock 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
dash of ground allspice 
1/2 teaspoon onion powder 
1/2 cup sour cream 
al Information 
Calories 
120 
Fat 
9.22g 
Saturated fat 
4.28g 
Trans fat 
0.31g 
Carbs 
3.21g 
Fiber 
0.21g 
Sugar 
0.71g 
Protein 
5.88g 
Cholesterol 
36.4mg 
Sodium 
157.97mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(22 servings) 
Powered by  
 
These Swedish meatballs from Blue Bloods star Bridget Moynahan are simple but delicious. The meatballs are made from a mixture of ground pork and ground beef flavored with allspice and minced onions. A little sour cream keeps them moist, and also enriches the creamy gravy spooned over top. Served with egg noodles, rice, sliced bread, or mashed potatoes, these make a wonderful Christmas Eve dish, which is when the Moynahans traditionally serve them—in a double (or triple) batch to make sure everyone gets enough, which isn’t a bad idea! 

See more TV stars dish on their favorite holiday foods. 

from: The Blue Bloods Cookbook: 120 Recipes That Will Bring Your Family to the Table by Bridget Moynahan & Wendy Howard Goldberg 
INSTRUCTIONS 
To make the meatballs: 
1In a large bowl, combine all the meatball ingredients except for the butter. Working with clean hands, mix the ingredients just until incorporated. Do not overwork the mixture. 
2Using a melon baller or rounded spoon, scoop out individual meatballs. Form into spheres the size of ping-pong balls. 
3In a very large saucepan (or divided between two medium saucepans), melt the butter over medium heat. Brown the meatballs, turning regularly to prevent burning and to ensure even cooking. Transfer the browned meatballs to a plate and set aside. 
To make the gravy: 

1Add the beef stock to the saucepan in which you cooked the meatballs and stir with a wooden spoon, loosening any browned bits stuck to the pan. 
2Add the flour, allspice, and onion powder and whisk constantly until smooth. Add the sour cream, 1 teaspoon at a time, and whisk to incorporate before adding more. Continue whisking until there are no clumps. 
3Return the meatballs to the pan and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the gravy thickens. Serve hot by themselves, or with rice, noodles, or sliced baguette, as you prefer. 


START RECIPE


Cranberry Relish 
Cranberries Thanksgiving Vegan Vegetarian +7 
Cranberry Sauce  Condiments  Fruit  Turkey Holidays  Fall  Easy 
 Save (92) Rate 
8 servings Easy  
 (9) Total: 40 mins Active: 10 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
White Chocolate–Cranberry Bark 
NEXT: 
Cranberry Conserve 
INGREDIENTS (9) 
1 (16-ounce) bag fresh cranberries 
1 2/3 cups granulated sugar 
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 
1 cup pomegranate juice (optional) 
1 cup water 
1/2 cup golden raisins 
1 medium apple, unpeeled and cored, medium dice 
1/2 teaspoon lemon zest 
al Information 
Calories 
227 
Fat 
0.18g 
Saturated fat 
0.03g 
Trans fat 
0.0g 
Carbs 
59.11g 
Fiber 
3.59g 
Sugar 
51.61g 
Protein 
0.61g 
Cholesterol 
Sodium 
4.45mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(8 servings) 
Powered by  
 
Cranberry sauce is so much more than jelled fruit that comes out of a can as is evident in this relish. Tannic pomegranate juice combines with crisp apples and sweet raisins for a tasty sauce that goes way beyond the Thanksgiving table. 

Game plan: This sauce is best made at least 1 day ahead of time so the flavors can meld. It can be served at room temperature or warmed (which is the way we like it at CHOW). 

This was featured as part of our Fruits of Fall story. 

By Max La Rivière-Hedrick and Aïda Mollenkamp 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Combine cranberries, sugar, ginger, cloves, pomegranate juice (if using), and water in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until most cranberries are broken up, about 20 minutes. 
2Stir in raisins, apple, and lemon zest and continue simmering until thick, about 25 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool. Serve lukewarm or at room temperature. 


START RECIPE

Black Tea Brandy Punch 
American Punch Drink Holidays +7 
Easy  Black Tea  Brandy  Champagne Lemon Juice  Oranges  Brown Sugar 
Save (0) Rate 
40 servings Easy  
 (0) Total: 5 min Active: 5 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Knockout Punch 
NEXT: 
Brandy-Apple Punch 
INGREDIENTS (8) 
32 ounces lemon juice 
8 ounces black tea 
32 ounces simple syrup 
8 ounces Cointreau 
32 ounces cognac, like Hennessy VSOP 
2 bottles brut Champagne 
1 ice ring 
sliced citrus, such as oranges and grapefruit, for garnish 
al Information 
Calories 
162 
Fat 
0.05g 
Saturated fat 
0.01g 
Trans fat 
0g 
Carbs 
19.14g 
Fiber 
0.07g 
Sugar 
17.53g 
Protein 
0.11g 
Cholesterol 
0g 
Sodium 
15.71mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(40 servings) 
Powered by  
 
If you need a drink to serve at your holiday party, this brandy punch, courtesy of Laura Royer at The Rose Club at The Plaza Hotel, fits the bill. It’s potent but nicely balanced, thanks to lemon juice, simple syrup, black tea, and Cointreau blended with the brandy (in this case, Cognac). Brut Champagne adds festive fizz, and citrus slices make a fragrant garnish. 

To make the ice ring, simply fill a Bundt pan or ring mold with citrus slices and water, then freeze. Allow to sit at room temperature for a few minutes to help make unmolding easier. Making simple syrup is just as, well, simple, but for a nice nuance of flavor, try using brown sugar in place of white in our Simple Syrup recipe. You can also add a few dashes of Angostura bitters and grated fresh nutmeg to the finished punch for extra holiday flavor. 

by Laura Royer 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Add a scoop of ice to a large punch bowl. 
2Add the lemon juice, black tea, simple syrup, Cointreau, and cognac. Stir gently. 
3Add the ice ring. 
4Top with the Champagne. 
5Garnish with lemon and orange slices and serve. 


START RECIPE

Basic Turkey Stock 
Turkey Thanksgiving French Soup +7 
Dairy Free  Gluten Free  Healthy  Leftovers Make Ahead  Poultry  Easy 
 Save (119) Rate 
8 quarts (32 cups) Easy  
 (10) Total: 5 hrs 40 mins Active: 15 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Turkey Pot Pie 
NEXT: 
Bourbon-Cream Turkey Gravy 
INGREDIENTS (7) 
1 turkey carcass 
2 medium stalks celery, coarsely chopped 
1 large carrot, coarsely chopped 
1 medium yellow onion, quartered 
1 medium bay leaf 
1 teaspoon whole black peppercorns 
6 sprigs fresh thyme 
al Information 
Calories 
149 
Fat 
5.8g 
Saturated fat 
1.5g 
Trans fat 
0.06g 
Carbs 
0.66g 
Fiber 
0.17g 
Sugar 
0.26g 
Protein 
22.28g 
Cholesterol 
73.87mg 
Sodium 
117.32mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(2 servings) 
Powered by  
 
Thanksgiving dinner is only the beginning of the story. After the pie’s been served, and you’ve raided the turkey for sandwiches, there’s the bird’s carcass to deal with. Instead of throwing it out, make turkey stock. It can be used in any recipe calling for chicken stock, and freezes beautifully for up to 3 months. 

Here are 3 recipes that taste noticeably more amazing with homemade turkey stock: Jerk Turkey Chili, Creamed Turkey, and Turkey Mulligatawny Soup. 

by Kate Ramos 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Break up carcass with a meat mallet or cleaver so it fits in a stockpot (at least 15 quarts), then add remaining ingredients. Add enough cold water to cover the bones by 2 inches and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce heat to low and simmer, skimming occasionally, until turkey flavor comes through in the stock, about 2 to 3 hours. 
2Strain through a fine mesh strainer into large heatproof containers. Let cool to room temperature, then refrigerate or freeze. 

START RECIPE

German Mulled Wine (Glühwein) 
Mulled Christmas Thanksgiving German +14 
Dinner Party  Potluck  Liqueur  Red Wine  Punch Infusion  Cocktails  Drink  Water  Holidays Sugar  Winter  Comfort Food  Easy 
 Save (146) Rate 
16 drinks Easy  
 (6) Total: 45 mins Active: 20 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Mulled Apple Cider 
NEXT: 
Mulled Wine 
INGREDIENTS (11) 
2 medium lemons 
2 medium oranges 
10 whole cloves 
5 cardamom pods 
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar 
1 1/4 cups water 
2 (3-inch) cinnamon sticks 
2 (750-milliliter) bottles dry red wine, such as Cabernet Sauvignon or Beaujolais Nouveau 
1/2 cup brandy 
Cheesecloth 
Butcher’s twine 
al Information 
Calories 
88 
Fat 
0.06g 
Saturated fat 
0.01g 
Trans fat 
0.0g 
Carbs 
18.6g 
Fiber 
0.82g 
Sugar 
17.32g 
Protein 
0.26g 
Cholesterol 
Sodium 
1.42mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(16 servings) 
Powered by  
 
The mulled wine stands at Germany’s famous Christmas markets—Christkindlmärkte—inspired us for this recipe. Whenever we got too cold wandering a market, we’d sidle up to the nearest stand and order glühwein served in a festive mug designed just for that year. After a few sips of this hot brew of spices, sugar, citrus, wine, and booze, we’d have new energy to push on through the chill. Here, you remove strips lemon and orange zest, and place them in a saucepan with the juice. Add a cheesecloth bundle of spices (cloves and cardamom), add sugar, water, and cinnamon, and simmer add. Add red wine and brandy, heat, and you’re ready to provide mirth to a holiday party. Keep mulled wine warm in a slow cooker and let guests help themselves.
Equipment not: You’ll need cheesecloth and butcher’s twine for this recipe. 

For other winter warmers, check out our Fernet Apple Hot Toddy, Hot Mulled Sherried Apple Cider, or Smoking Bishop. 

by Christine Gallary 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Using a vegetable peeler, remove the zest from the lemons and oranges in wide strips, avoiding the white pith: place the zest in a large saucepan. Juice the lemons and oranges and add the juice to the pan. Place the cloves and cardamom in a small piece of cheesecloth, tie it tightly with butcher’s twine, and add the bundle to the saucepan. 
2Add the sugar, water, and cinnamon sticks, place the pan over high heat, and bring to a simmer, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Reduce the heat to low and continue to simmer, stirring occasionally, until the mixture is reduced by about one-third, about 20 minutes.
3Add the red wine and brandy, stir to combine, and bring just to a simmer (don’t let it boil). Remove from the heat and remove and discard the spice bundle before serving. 


START RECIPE

Holiday Sparkler 
New Year's Eve Christmas Thanksgiving +8 
Dinner Party  Punch  Cocktails  Drink  Holidays Fall  Winter  Easy 
 Save (94) Rate 
5 drinks Easy  
 (2) Total: Under 5 mins Active: Under 5 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Apple Brandy Hot Toddy 
NEXT: 
Holiday Ham 
INGREDIENTS (9) 
1/4 cup light brown sugar 
1 lemon wedge 
1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves 
1/8 teaspoon ground allspice 
1/8 teaspoon ground ginger 
5 cubes light brown sugar 
5 ounces brandy 
1 (750-milliliter) bottle chilled sparkling wine 
al Information 
Calories 
233 
Fat 
0.02g 
Saturated fat 
0.01g 
Trans fat 
0.0g 
Carbs 
15.49g 
Fiber 
0.11g 
Sugar 
12.7g 
Protein 
0.14g 
Cholesterol 
Sodium 
10.08mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(5 servings) 
Powered by  
 
New York food and beverage expert Nick Mautone turned us on to this cocktail, a blend of sparkling wine with brandy, warm spices, and a touch of brown sugar. It’s the perfect opening to a memorable Thanksgiving, a sophisticated and seasonally-driven cocktail for a Christmas get-together, and an ideal prelude to the cork-popping moment when the New Year rings in at midnight. 

For more celebratory cheer, check out our Aperol Spritz, French 75, and Peach Bellini. 

by Nick Mautone 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Pour the brown sugar onto a small plate. Rub the lemon wedge along the rim of each champagne glass (but not inside the rim). Holding each glass at an angle, roll the outer edge of the rim in the sugar until it’s fully coated. 
2Mix together the cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and ginger, then divide the mixture evenly among 5 champagne glasses. 
3Add 1 sugar cube and 1 ounce of the brandy to each glass. Stir until the spices are well blended. 
4Divide the sparkling wine evenly among the glasses. (Be careful, the sparkling wine will fizz vigorously!) Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE
Basic Popcorn Balls 
Easter Christmas Halloween Dessert +5 
Kid Friendly  Holidays  DIY  Popcorn  Easy 
 Save (181) Rate 
6 (3-inch) popcorn balls Easy  
 (9) Total: 40 mins Active: 10 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Basic Caramel Sauce 
NEXT: 
Eggnog Popcorn Balls 
INGREDIENTS (8) 
9 cups plain popped popcorn 
1 cup granulated sugar 
1/3 cup light corn syrup 
1/3 cup water 
1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter (1/2 stick), cut into small pieces 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
al Information 
Calories 
311 
Fat 
11.05g 
Saturated fat 
5.44g 
Trans fat 
0.31g 
Carbs 
54.9g 
Fiber 
1.2g 
Sugar 
47.93g 
Protein 
1.16g 
Cholesterol 
20.25mg 
Sodium 
204.75mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(6 servings) 
Powered by  
 
A holiday classic—be it for eating or decorating—popcorn balls are so simple to make that even the kids can help shape and decorate them. 

Special equipment: You’ll need a reliable candy/fat thermometer for this recipe. 

Game plan: The popcorn balls will last up to 5 days when stored at room temperature in an airtight container. 

This recipe was featured as part of our Popcorn Balls for the Holidays project. 

by CHOW Food Team 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Coat a large heatproof bowl with butter, vegetable oil, or cooking spray and place popcorn in the bowl. 
2Place sugar, corn syrup, water, vinegar, and salt in a medium saucepan and stir to combine. Place over high heat, stirring until sugar is dissolved, about 2 minutes. Bring to a boil and cook until mixture registers 260°F on a candy/fat thermometer, about 5 to 7 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in butter and vanilla until melted and smooth. 
3Immediately drizzle sugar mixture over popcorn and stir continuously with a rubber spatula, scraping the bottom of the bowl, until popcorn is thoroughly coated and cool enough to handle, about 3 minutes. 
4Using buttered or oiled hands, tightly press mixture (it may still be a bit warm) into 3-inch rounds. Place on waxed or parchment paper to cool completely, about 15 to 20 minutes. 


START RECIPE
Basic Popcorn Balls 
Easter Christmas Halloween Dessert +5 
Kid Friendly  Holidays  DIY  Popcorn  Easy 
 Save (181) Rate 
6 (3-inch) popcorn balls Easy  
 (9) Total: 40 mins Active: 10 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Basic Caramel Sauce 
NEXT: 
Eggnog Popcorn Balls 
INGREDIENTS (8) 
9 cups plain popped popcorn 
1 cup granulated sugar 
1/3 cup light corn syrup 
1/3 cup water 
1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter (1/2 stick), cut into small pieces 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
al Information 
Calories 
311 
Fat 
11.05g 
Saturated fat 
5.44g 
Trans fat 
0.31g 
Carbs 
54.9g 
Fiber 
1.2g 
Sugar 
47.93g 
Protein 
1.16g 
Cholesterol 
20.25mg 
Sodium 
204.75mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(6 servings) 
Powered by  
 
A holiday classic—be it for eating or decorating—popcorn balls are so simple to make that even the kids can help shape and decorate them. 

Special equipment: You’ll need a reliable candy/fat thermometer for this recipe. 

Game plan: The popcorn balls will last up to 5 days when stored at room temperature in an airtight container. 

This recipe was featured as part of our Popcorn Balls for the Holidays project. 

by CHOW Food Team 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Coat a large heatproof bowl with butter, vegetable oil, or cooking spray and place popcorn in the bowl. 
2Place sugar, corn syrup, water, vinegar, and salt in a medium saucepan and stir to combine. Place over high heat, stirring until sugar is dissolved, about 2 minutes. Bring to a boil and cook until mixture registers 260°F on a candy/fat thermometer, about 5 to 7 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in butter and vanilla until melted and smooth. 
3Immediately drizzle sugar mixture over popcorn and stir continuously with a rubber spatula, scraping the bottom of the bowl, until popcorn is thoroughly coated and cool enough to handle, about 3 minutes. 
4Using buttered or oiled hands, tightly press mixture (it may still be a bit warm) into 3-inch rounds. Place on waxed or parchment paper to cool completely, about 15 to 20 minutes. 


START RECIPE

Slow Cooker Root Vegetable Stew 
Stew Thanksgiving Moroccan Slow Cooking +16 
Stewing  Gluten Free  Healthy  Vegan Vegetarian  Cumin  Onions  Pumpkin  Spinach Dinner  Make Ahead  Fall  Winter  Comfort Food Main Dish  Easy 
 Save (501) Rate 
6 to 8 servings Easy  
 (29) Total: 30 mins, plus 3 1/2 hrs cooking time Active: 30 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Paul Qui's Pakbet (Pinakbet, Filipino Vegetable... 
NEXT: 
Mexican Vegetable Stew 
INGREDIENTS (20) 
1/4 cup olive oil 
2 medium yellow onions, large dice 
Kosher salt 
1 1/4 teaspoons ground ginger 
1 (3-inch) cinnamon stick 
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
Pinch saffron threads 
Freshly ground black pepper 
1 pound Yukon Gold potatoes (about 3 large), large dice 
1 pound carrots (about 4 to 5 medium), peeled and large dice 
1 pound parsnips (about 4 medium), peeled and large dice 
3 cups low-sodium chicken or vegetable broth 
2 pounds sugar baby pumpkin or butternut squash (about 1 small), peeled, seeded, and large dice 
1 pound sweet potatoes (about 2 medium), peeled and large dice 
1 (15-ounce) can chickpeas, also known as garbanzo beans, drained and rinsed (about 1 1/2 cups) 
1/2 cup golden raisins, also known as sultanas 
1 bunch spinach, trimmed and washed (about 4 cups loosely packed) 
1 1/2 tablespoons cider vinegar, plus more as needed 
al Information 
Calories 
626 
Fat 
13.2g 
Saturated fat 
1.8g 
Trans fat 
Carbs 
116.76g 
Fiber 
22.36g 
Sugar 
29.09g 
Protein 
18.96g 
Cholesterol 
Sodium 
191.09mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(6 servings) 
Powered by  
 
When slowly cooked, root vegetables morph into sweet deliciousness. Use vegetable (or mushroom) broth here, and you’ve got a hearty, vegan, and gluten-free dinner. 

This dish was featured as part of our Slow Cooker Recipes photo gallery. 

For an easy, flavorful slow cooker dish using meat, try our chicken adobo recipe. 

by Jill Santopietro 
WHAT TO BUY 
Crock-Pot 6-Quart Programmable Cook and Carry Oval Slow Cooker 
This top-rated Crock-Pot Cook & Carry Programmable Slow Cooker is perfect for the cook with a busy lifestyle and offers customizable cooking times and temperatures. 

Buy on Amazon › 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Heat the oil in a large frying pan over medium heat until shimmering. Add the onions and a pinch of salt and cook over medium heat until translucent, about 4 minutes. Add the ginger, cinnamon, coriander, cumin, cayenne, saffron, and a pinch of pepper and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. 
2Transfer the mixture to a slow cooker, add the potatoes, carrots, parsnips, and broth, season with salt and pepper, and stir to combine. Cover and cook on high for 1 1/2 hours. 
3Add the pumpkin or squash, sweet potatoes, chickpeas, and raisins, season with salt, and stir to combine. Cover and continue to cook on high until a knife easily pierces the vegetables, about 2 hours more, stirring after 1 hour. Add the spinach and gently mix (do not overmix). Let sit until wilted. Gently stir in the vinegar, taste, and season with more salt, pepper, and vinegar as needed. 


START RECIPE

Easy Whipped Cream 
Dessert Cream Easy Christmas +13 
Thanksgiving  Valentine's Day  French  Baking No-Cook  Gluten Free  Vegetarian  Dairy Vanilla Extract  Holidays  DIY  Sugar Comfort Food 
 Save (193) Rate 
About 2 cups Easy  
 (10) Total: 15 mins Active: 5 
PREVIOUS: 
Strawberry Bread Pudding with Crème Fraîche... 
NEXT: 
Make-Ahead Whipped Cream 
INGREDIENTS (3) 
1 cup heavy cream 
1 tablespoon granulated sugar 
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
al Information 
Calories 
219 
Fat 
22.02g 
Saturated fat 
13.7g 
Trans fat 
0g 
Carbs 
4.88g 
Fiber 
0g 
Sugar 
4.87g 
Protein 
1.22g 
Cholesterol 
81.52mg 
Sodium 
22.69mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(4 servings) 
Powered by  
 
A homemade whipped cream recipe, a.k.a. crème chantilly in fancy circles, tastes infinitely better than aerosol cans of the stuff or tubs of fake “whipped topping.” This basic, not-too-sweet recipe can also be customized to taste with flavored liqueurs or spices: Add cinnamon and top Apple-Honey Upside-Down Cakes with it, or add orange liqueur and serve it with Buttermilk and Brown Butter Waffles at your next weekend brunch. 

Make-ahead note: Whipped cream is best served immediately, but you can make it in advance by whipping the cream to soft peaks and refrigerating it for up to 2 hours. When ready to serve, continue whipping the cream to medium peaks. 

What to buy: You can use store-bought vanilla extract in this recipe, but it’s just as easy to make your own. 

by Lisa Lavery 
WHAT TO BUY 
KitchenAid 5-Quart Tilt-Head Stand Mixer with Pouring Shield 
The KitchenAid stand mixer is a classic for a reason: it's a beautiful powerhouse that'll last forever. With multiple attachments, it makes beating eggs, whipping cream, mixing and kneading dough and batters, and whisking sauces and frostings quick and painless. 

Buy on Amazon › 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Chill the clean bowl of a stand mixer and the whisk attachment in the freezer for 10 minutes. 
2Add all of the ingredients to the bowl and whisk on high speed until medium peaks form, about 1 minute. (Alternatively, you can use a hand whisk and a large chilled bowl. Whisk all of the ingredients until medium peaks form, about 2 to 3 minutes.) Serve immediately, or follow the instructions in the make-ahead note in the intro. 

START RECIPE

Savory Cheese Cookies 
Christmas Scandinavian Gouda Appetizer +11 
Easy  Parmesan  Gin  Baking Powder  Milk Butter  Snack  Kosher Salt  Flour  Cocktail Party Black Pepper 
Save (10) Rate 
24 cookies Easy  
 (0) Total: 30 min Active: 15 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Checkerboard Cookies 
NEXT: 
Red Velvet Crackle Cookies 
INGREDIENTS (8) 
1 cup room temperature butter 
1/2 cup finely grated aged cheese, such as Gouda or Parmesan 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1/2 cup whole milk 
2 tablespoons gin 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
al Information 
Calories 
120 
Fat 
8.56g 
Saturated fat 
5.37g 
Trans fat 
0.31g 
Carbs 
8.4g 
Fiber 
0.31g 
Sugar 
0.34g 
Protein 
1.89g 
Cholesterol 
23.41mg 
Sodium 
67.12mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(24 servings) 
Powered by  
 
These crisp and crumbly cookies are made with aged Gouda (or Parmesan, if you prefer), whole milk, and fresh cracked black pepper. There’s also a little gin in the dough, and these are traditionally served as a warm, savory nibble with a drink of cold gin. They’re great with bitter beer too, or simply on their own. For more Dutch dishes, get this Braised Endive with Bacon and Mustard Sauce recipe, and this Dutch Applesauce Raisin Cake recipe. 

from: Dutch Feast by Emily Wight 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Preheat the oven to 350°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment. 
2In a large bowl, cream together butter, cheese, salt, and pepper. Add milk and gin, continuing to mix until well combined. Scrape down sides of bowl. 
3In a separate bowl, whisk together flour and baking powder. 
4Mix wet ingredients and dry ingredients to form a dough. 
5Form dough balls about 1/2 inch in diameter, and place 1 inch apart on prepared baking sheet (in a couple of batches). 
6Bake for 15 minutes, until just golden and lightly puffed. Serve warm. 
Recipe courtesy of Dutch Feast by Emily Wight, published by Arsenal Pulp Press 2017. Photo by Tracey Kusiewicz / Foodie Photography. 


START RECIPE

Braised Endive with Bacon and Mustard Sauce 
Scandinavian Bacon Endive Side Dish +11 
Easy  Dijon Mustard  Christmas  Thanksgiving Chicken Stock  Butter  Lemon Juice  Thyme Garlic  Salt  Black Pepper 
Save (2) Rate 
4 to 6 servings as a side Easy  
 (0) Total: 25 min Active: 25 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Horseradish Mustard Sauce 
NEXT: 
Pork Chops with Apples and Mustard Sauce 
INGREDIENTS (9) 
4 slices bacon, trimmed into lardons 
4–6 Belgian endives, trimmed and halved lengthwise 
2 cups low-sodium or homemade chicken stock 
1 garlic clove, smashed 
1 thyme sprig 
1 teaspoon grainy Dijon mustard 
2 teaspoons lemon juice 
3 tablespoons cold butter 
salt and pepper, to taste 
al Information 
Calories 
253 
Fat 
21.34g 
Saturated fat 
9.61g 
Trans fat 
0.39g 
Carbs 
8.37g 
Fiber 
2.41g 
Sugar 
2.27g 
Protein 
7.46g 
Cholesterol 
44.98mg 
Sodium 
537.0mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(4 servings) 
Powered by  
 
Braising endive tones down its bitterness and brings out a bit of natural sweetness, while also making it tender. Crisp bacon brings salt and crunch, and the grainy Dijon mustard sauce is silky, buttery, and bright with lemon, garlic, and fresh thyme. This makes a great side dish for roast chicken, salmon, or pork, but can also be topped with a poached egg for a lovely and unexpected breakfast or brunch. For more delicious Dutch dishes, try this Dutch Applesauce Raisin Cake recipe and this Savory Cheese Cookies recipe. 

from: Dutch Feast by Emily Wight 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1In a large frying pan over medium heat, sauté bacon for about 6 minutes, until crisp and most of the fat has rendered out, stirring frequently. Remove cooked bacon to a plate lined with paper towels, and set aside. Pour out all but 2 tablespoons of the fat. 
2Nestle endive halves in pan, cut-side down, and cook, uncovered, for 3 minutes, until crisp and golden, with the occasional charred bit. Gently turn over, cut-side up. 
3Add chicken stock, garlic clove, and thyme. Cover pan and cook for 10 minutes. 
4Gently remove endives from pan and lay out on a serving dish. Remove thyme sprig and garlic clove and discard. 
5Turn heat up to medium-high. Whisk in mustard and lemon juice. Cook for about 1 minute, then, 1 tablespoon at a time, add butter, whisking constantly until it has melted into the sauce. Return bacon to pan. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed. Pour sauce over endives. 


START RECIPE

Avocado Yogurt Dip 
American Tailgating Yogurt Healthy +15 
Avocados  Appetizer  Dip  Easy  Olive Oil Lime Juice  Chives  Cumin  Garlic  Snack  Salt Vinegar  Vegetables  Black Pepper White Wine Vinegar 
Save (7) Rate 
1 1/2 cups Easy  
 (0) Total: 10 min Active: 10 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Tiramisu Dip 
NEXT: 
Yogurt-Avocado Dressing 
INGREDIENTS (20) 
For the dip: 
1 avocado 
2/3 cup whole milk yogurt 
1/4 cup chopped chives, plus extra for garnish 
1 lime, zested and juiced 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon white wine vinegar 
2 tablespoons olive oil, plus extra for garnish 
1/2 teaspoon cumin 
large pinch salt, plus extra for garnish 
few cracks black pepper, plus extra for garnish 
drizzle olive oil, for garnish 
sprinkle of chives, for garnish 
For the vegetables: 
1 bunch colorful carrots, tops trimmed 
1 bulb fennel, trimmed into long spears 
1/2 head purple cauliflower, trimmed into bite-sized pieces 
1 bunch radishes, cut in half and tops trimmed 
1 pint cherry tomatoes 
1 cucumber, cut into 3-inch spears 
1 cup snap peas 
1 cup green olives 
al Information 
Calories 
352 
Fat 
18.94g 
Saturated fat 
3.71g 
Trans fat 
0g 
Carbs 
44.36g 
Fiber 
16.89g 
Sugar 
19.9g 
Protein 
10.41g 
Cholesterol 
7.08mg 
Sodium 
814.57mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(3 servings) 
Powered by  
 
This super flexible avocado yogurt dip is light, tangy, and incredibly easy to make, not to mention a lovely shade of pale green. It works perfectly as a dip for crackers and crunchy vegetables in a rainbow assortment of colors, but it can also be adapted to lots of other uses. Thinned with a little water, it’s a Green Goddess salad dressing, or thickened with a bit more yogurt, it’s a great condiment for Greek food. You could even use it as a taco topping with some cotija cheese sprinkled on top. For more tastes of hygge, get this Twice-Cooked Sweet Potatoes with Rosemary, Hazelnuts, and Crème Fraîche recipe and this Enriched Polenta Porridge with Raspberries and Crème Fraîche recipe. 

from: Tasting Hyggee: Joyful Recipes for Cozy Days and Nights by Leela Cyd 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Wash and trim all vegetables, pack in glassware, and toss onto a big cutting board when you’re ready to feast. 
2Meanwhile, make the dip. Place avocado, yogurt, chives, lime zest and juice, garlic, vinegar, olive oil, cumin, and salt and pepper into a high-speed blender. Blend until smooth. Adjust seasonings if needed. Serve immediately in pretty bowl with a drizzle of olive oil, sprinkle of fresh chives, and pinch of salt and pepper. 


START RECIPE

Twice-Cooked Sweet Potatoes with Rosemary, Hazelnuts, and Crème Fraîche 
American Rosemary Hazelnut +16 
Sweet Potato  Side Dish  Crème Fraîche  Fall Easy  Dinner Party  Soy Sauce  Eggs  Olive Oil Oranges  Nutmeg  Molasses  Dinner  Salt Winter  Black Pepper 
Save (1) Rate 
4 servings Easy  
 (0) Total: 1 hr 30 min Active: 20 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Pseudo Crème Fraîche 
NEXT: 
Enriched Polenta Porridge with Raspberries... 
INGREDIENTS (14) 
4 medium sweet potatoes 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 teaspoon fine sea salt, divided 
1 medium sprig fresh rosemary 
a few cracks of fresh black pepper 
2 tablespoons crème fraîche 
1/2 teaspoon orange zest 
1 tablespoon molasses 
1 teaspoon soy sauce 
1 egg 
pinch freshly grated nutmeg, plus extra ?for garnish 
crème fraîche 
hazelnuts 
extra rosemary 
 
Creamy inside and crisp without, these twice-baked sweet potatoes are made extra autumnal with rosemary, orange zest, molasses, and hazelnuts. Crème fraîche makes them even creamier, and the combination of warm, sweet, and earthy flavors are perfect for all sorts of fall and winter meals. Feel free to do the first roasting ahead of time, then mix the filling, and wait to bake the potato boats again until you’re just about ready to serve them. For more delicious dishes that embody the spirit of hygge, try this Enriched Polenta Porridge with Raspberries and Crème Fraîche recipe, and this Avocado Yogurt Dip recipe. 

from: Tasting Hyggee: Joyful Recipes for Cozy Days and Nights by Leela Cyd 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Preheat oven to 400°F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Wash and dry the potatoes. Coat potatoes with olive oil, and then sprinkle with 1/2 teaspoon of the salt. Bake for 40 minutes, until potatoes are tender and the skins are pulling away from the flesh. Remove from oven and set aside to cool. 
2Cut sweet potatoes in half lengthwise and scoop most of the flesh into a medium mixing bowl, but be sure to leave a little inside the potato skin (about 1/4 inch). Place skins in a single layer on a parchment-lined baking pan. Remove leaves from rosemary sprig and chop finely. Mash the scooped-out potato flesh with the remaining salt, pepper, crème fraîche, orange zest, molasses, soy sauce, egg, nutmeg, and rosemary until combined. A mixture with a few chunks is okay—it doesn’t have to be perfectly smooth. Spoon mashed mixture into the reserved skins. 
3Bake sweet potatoes at 400°F until the filling is golden brown, about 30 minutes. Remove from oven and garnish with extra sprinkling of nutmeg, crème fraîche, scattered hazelnuts, and rosemary leaves. 


START RECIPE

Old Monk's Honey Chili Chicken 
Indian Stir-Fry Chicken Thighs Honey +14 
Dinner  Easy  Chinese  Cornstarch  Chile Sauce Soy Sauce  Canola Oil  Cilantro  Ginger  Chicken Chile Peppers  Garlic  Radishes  Scallions 
 Save (13) Rate 
3 to 4 servings Easy  
 (0) Total: 20 min Active: 20 min 
PREVIOUS: 
vWhite Chicken Chili 
NEXT: 
Malaysian Chili Prawns 
INGREDIENTS (13) 
1 pound boneless dark meat chicken, diced and unseasoned 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 
2 teaspoons canola oil 
1 teaspoon fresh garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon fresh ginger, minced 
1/2 teaspoon green chilies, minced 
1 tablespoon sambal oelek 
5 teaspoons soy sauce 
1 teaspoon honey 
1 teaspoon cornstarch dissolved in 2 teaspoons water 
chopped scallions, for garnish 
julienned radish, for garnish 
torn cilantro, for garnish 
al Information 
Calories 
376 
Fat 
25.84g 
Saturated fat 
6.75g 
Trans fat 
0.16g 
Carbs 
5.49g 
Fiber 
0.2g 
Sugar 
2.2g 
Protein 
28.98g 
Cholesterol 
113.4mg
Sodium 
647.19mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(3 servings) 
Powered by  
 
This honey chili chicken from chef Navjot Arora of Indian soul food restaurant Old Monk is crunchy, sticky, sweet, and spicy, and impossible to stop eating. Make sure to have all your ingredients ready before you start, since the actual cooking process is quite quick. For another recipe from the chef, check out this Pumpkin Naan recipe. 

by Navjot Arora 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Toss the chicken in the cornstarch to lightly coat the meat. 
2Heat a wok or large sauté pan over high heat, then add canola oil and heat until shimmering. Add the chicken and flash fry for 30 to 60 seconds, or until crispy and golden brown. Remove from the pan and drain on paper towels. 
3Add garlic to pan and stir-fry for about 30 seconds, then add ginger and stir-fry for about 30 seconds more, and then add green chilies and stir-fry for another 10 to 20 seconds. Add sambal oelek, soy sauce, and honey to the pan and stir to combine. Add the cornstarch-water slurry and stir for about 30 seconds or until sauce is slightly thickened and shiny. Add the flash-fried chicken to the sauce and stir-fry for 3 minutes, until cooked through and coated with sauce. 
4Turn the chicken out of the pan onto a serving platter and scrape remaining sauce on top. Garnish with scallions, radish, and/or cilantro, and serve. 


START RECIPE

Indian Spiced Sautéed Mushrooms and Green Onions 
Indian Stir-Fry Vegan Vegetarian +16 
Cremini  Dinner  Easy  Washington DC Canola Oil  Lemon Juice  Chili Powder  Cumin Ginger  Turmeric  Mushrooms  Onions  Scallions Tomatoes  Salt  Thai Chile Pepper 
Save (1) Rate 
4 servings Easy  
 (0) Total: 15 min Active: 15 min 
PREVIOUS: 
Bison Burger with Mushrooms and Spring Onions 
NEXT: 
Barley with Mushrooms and Green Beans 
INGREDIENTS (12) 
1 1/2 pounds medium cremini mushrooms 
1/4 cup canola oil 
1 teaspoon cumin seeds 
1 cup finely chopped yellow onion 
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh ginger 
1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh Thai green chili 
2 cups finely chopped tomatoes 
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1 teaspoon deggi mirch 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt 
2 bunches green onions, white and green parts, finely chopped 
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 
al Information 
Calories 
236 
Fat 
14.59g 
Saturated fat 
1.15g 
Trans fat 
0.05g 
Carbs 
23.49g 
Fiber 
6.41g 
Sugar 
9.25g 
Protein 
9.61g 
Cholesterol 
0g 
Sodium 
1235.8mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(4 servings) 
Powered by  
 
This quick, satisfying sauté combines cremini mushrooms with green chili, fresh ginger, cumin, and deggi mirch (an Indian chili powder blend) for a spicy, earthy, and fragrant dish with freshness from chopped tomatoes. A little lemon juice adds bright acidity to augment the stir fry, which works equally well as a side dish or a vegan main. For more Rasika recipes, see their Crispy Fried Spinach with Tomato, Onion, Tamarind, and Yogurt recipe and their Steamed Sea Bass in Banana Leaf with Coconut-Mint Chutney recipe. 

Mad about mushrooms? Try our Marinated Mushrooms recipe, and our Mushroom and Chorizo Pizza recipe too. 

from: Rasika: Flavors of India by Ashok Bajaj, Vikram Sunderam, & David Hagedorn 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Trim the mushroom stems flush to the caps (discard the stems). Quarter the mushrooms and clean them in a large bowl of water. Transfer them to a colander. 
2In a wok or kadai, heat the oil over medium-high heat until it shimmers. Add the cumin seeds and let them crackle. Add the onion and cook until soft and just beginning to brown, about 3 minutes. Stir in the ginger, green chili, tomatoes, turmeric, and deggi mirch. Cook, stirring occasionally, to soften the tomatoes, about 3 minutes. Add the mushrooms and 1 teaspoon of the salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes. Add the green onions, lemon juice, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt and serve. 




START RECIPE

Perfect Roast Potatoes 
Roasting Potatoes Side Dish Easter +14 
Christmas  Thanksgiving  Valentine's Day  Italian Dinner Party  Healthy  Vegetarian  Olive Oil Rosemary  Garlic  Weeknight Dinner  Summer Winter  Easy
 Save (670) Rate 
2 to 3 servings Easy  
 (43) Total: 45 mins Active: 5 mins 
PREVIOUS: 
Buttermilk Mashed Potatoes 
NEXT: 
Perfect 
 Baked Potatoes 
INGREDIENTS (6) 
1 pound small to medium Red Bliss, round white, or new potatoes 
4 tablespoons olive oil 
2 (5-inch) rosemary sprigs 
5 medium garlic cloves, lightly smashed 
Kosher salt 
Freshly ground back pepper 
al Information 
Calories 
433 
Fat 
27.56g 
Saturated fat 
3.95g 
Trans fat 
Carbs 
43.65g 
Fiber 
6.05g 
Sugar 
1.85g 
Protein 
5.31g 
Cholesterol 
Sodium 
16.88mg 
al Analysis per serving 
(2 servings) 
Powered by  
 
Nothing says Sunday dinner quite like roast potatoes. They’re easy to assemble, take only 5 minutes of prep time, and are universally loved. Simply toss small to medium red or white potatoes, garlic cloves, and fresh rosemary sprigs in olive oil, season with salt and pepper, and roast at the bottom of a hot oven, to form a crispy, beautifully burnished crust. This recipe was based on the potatoes that traditionally accompany Italian Porchetta or Bistecca Fiorentina. They also pair beautifully with just about any fish or meat dish (try them with our Crispy-Skin Chicken Breasts), or are delicious on their own, topped with our simple pesto recipe. 

Timing note: If you’re making these to serve with our bistecca, start heating the oil a few minutes after you put the steak in the oven. Once the oil heats, add the potatoes and proceed with the bistecca recipe. By the time your steak is done, the potatoes will be nicely crisped and ready to eat. 

For more inspiration, check out our Olive Potatoes, Brown Butter Hasselback Potatoes, and Roasted Fingerling Potatoes. 

by Aida Mollenkamp 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1Heat the oven to 500°F and arrange a rack in the bottom. Clean the potatoes, dry them well, and cut them into halves or quarters lengthwise, depending on their size. 
2When the oven is hot (this will take 20 to 30 minutes), add the oil to a 3-quart baking dish and place it on the bottom rack of the oven to heat. Once the oil is hot and shimmering (about 3 minutes), carefully remove the dish from the oven and add the dry potatoes, rosemary, and garlic. Carefully stir to coat in oil, and season generously with salt and freshly ground black pepper. 
3Return the dish to the oven, placing it on the bottom rack, and roast the potatoes, checking occasionally so that they don’t burn, until a nice crust has developed and they are dark golden brown, about 35 minutes. Remove the rosemary, stir to coat the potatoes with oil and break up the garlic cloves, taste and season as necessary, and serve hot. 


START RECIPE


Pepperoni Tomato Sauce 
Jennifer Causey 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 1/4 cup) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
Turn plain chicken breasts, hamburger steaks, or leftover pot roast into a surefire family favorite with this speedy recipe. Just ladle some warm sauce over the protein for a dish that tastes like pepperoni pizza. It’s also great as a dip for homemade chicken fingers, grilled cheese sandwiches, or roasted zucchini wedges. A wee touch of sugar balances all the flavors: don’t be tempted to leave it out. 

Ingredients 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper 12 chopped pepperoni slices 3 minced garlic cloves 1 (8-oz.) can unsalted tomato sauce 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 1/8 teaspoon sugar 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Heat olive oil in a medium skillet over medium-high. Add dried oregano, crushed red pepper, chopped pepperoni slices, and minced garlic cloves: sauté 2 minutes. Add can unsalted tomato sauce, kosher salt, and sugar: cook, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened, about 4 minutes. 


START RECIPE


Sesame Shrimp with Ginger Broccoli 
Caitlin Bensel 
Prep Time 
20 Mins 
Total Time 
20 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: about 8 shrimp and 1 cup broccoli) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
Ingredients 
1 1/2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon Sriracha chili sauce 2 large egg whites 1/2 cup whole-wheat panko (Japanese breadcrumbs) 1/4 cup toasted sesame seeds 1 1/2 pounds large shrimp, peeled and deveined (tails on) 2 tablespoons canola oil, divided 1 tablespoon toasted sesame oil, divided 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, divided 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, divided 1 tablespoon sliced garlic 1 tablespoon finely chopped peeled fresh ginger 2 (12-oz.) broccoli heads, cut into florets with stems attached 1/4 cup water 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
to Make It 
Step 1 
Whisk together brown sugar, Sriracha, and egg whites in a shallow dish. Combine panko and sesame seeds in a shallow dish. Working in batches, add shrimp to egg mixture: dredge in panko mixture. 

Step 2 
Heat 1 1/2 teaspoons canola oil and 1 1/2 teaspoons sesame oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium-high. Add half of dredged shrimp: cook until golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Remove from pan. Repeat procedure with 1 1/2 teaspoons canola oil, remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons sesame oil, and remaining half of dredged shrimp. Sprinkle cooked shrimp with 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. 

Step 3 
Heat remaining 1 tablespoon canola oil in pan over medium-high. Add garlic and ginger: cook, stirring constantly, 1 minute. Add broccoli: cook until lightly browned, about 2 minutes. Add 1/4 cup water: cover and cook until crisp-tender, 2 to 3 minutes. Uncover: sprinkle with remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt and remaining 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Serve with shrimp. 


START RECIPE

Korean Barbecue Pizza 
Caitlin Bensel 
Active Time 
20 Mins 
Total Time 
30 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 2 slices) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
We gave a crowd-pleasing classic like barbecue chicken pizza a Korean spin. Fresh mozzarella is mild enough to complement the caramel and chile notes in the sauce and is a great canvas for the fresh carrot and radish salad on top. Roll out and build the pizza on a large sheet of parchment paper so you can place both directly on the hot pizza stone. The bottom of the crust will still be crisp, and you’ll avoid any potential flops from counter to oven. 

Ingredients 
3 tablespoons rice vinegar, divided 2 tablespoons light brown sugar, divided 1 medium carrot, shaved into ribbons 1 medium daikon radish, shaved into ribbons 3 tablespoons fresh cilantro leaves 1/4 cup water 1/2 teaspoon cornstarch 1 teaspoon olive oil 1 teaspoon finely chopped garlic 1 teaspoon finely chopped peeled fresh ginger 1 tablespoon lower-sodium soy sauce 1 tablespoon sambal oelek (ground fresh chile paste) 4 ounces skinless, boneless rotisserie chicken, shredded (about 1 cup) 1 (10-oz.) prebaked whole-wheat thin pizza crust (such as Boboli) 3 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese, torn into small pieces (about 3/4 cup) 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Preheat oven to 450°F. 

Step 2 
Combine 1 tablespoon vinegar and 1 tablespoon brown sugar in a bowl. Add carrot and daikon: toss to coat. Let stand 10 minutes Stir in cilantro. 

Step 3 
Combine 1/4 cup water and cornstarch in a bowl. Heat oil in a small skillet over medium. Add garlic and ginger: sauté 2 minutes. Stir in remaining 2 tablespoons vinegar, remaining 1 tablespoon brown sugar, soy sauce, and sambal oelek: bring to a boil. Reduce heat, stir in cornstarch mixture, and simmer until slightly thickened, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove pan from heat: stir in chicken. 

Step 4 
Place prepared crust on a baking sheet. Spread chicken mixture over crust, leaving a 1-inch border. Top with mozzarella. Bake at 450°F for 10 minutes. Top evenly with carrot mixture 


START RECIPE

Citrus Sunrise Smoothie 
How to Make a Citrus Sunrise Smoothie 
With a one-two punch of mango and coconut, this is a perfect blend for those who enjoy a taste of the tropics. This recipe calls for frozen fruit, letting you still reap the al benefits of out-of-season fruit like mango. 
Pause 
Mute 
Current Time 0:00 
/
Duration Time 0:27 
Loaded: 0%Progress: 0% 
 
Share 
Captions 
Fullscreen 

Prep Time 
5 Mins 
Total Time 
5 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 1 (serving size: about 2 cups) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
With a one-two punch of mango and coconut, this is a perfect blend for those who enjoy a taste of the tropics. This recipe calls for frozen fruit, letting you still reap the al benefits of out-of-season fruit like mango. Just one serving offers 100% of your daily goal for vitamin C and over one-quarter your daily calcium needs in a low-calorie package. 

Ingredients 
1/2 cup unsweetened refrigerated coconut milk (such as Silk) 1/4 cup fresh orange juice 1 small banana, frozen 1/2 cup frozen mango 1/2 cup plain 2% reduced-fat Greek yogurt 2 teaspoons chopped walnuts 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Place coconut milk and orange juice in a blender. Add banana, mango, and yogurt: process until smooth. Pour into a glass: top with walnuts. 


START RECIPE



Fennel, Tomato, and Feta Skillet Bake 
Jennifer Causey 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 1 cup) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
Fresh fennel becomes mellow and sweet once sautéed and braised in chopped, strained tomatoes. If you can’t find Pomì brand, drain about 1/3 of the liquid from a (15-oz.) can of unsalted diced tomatoes. Pair this simple, beautiful side with baked fish or lemon-and-herb roasted chicken. 

Ingredients 
2 fennel bulbs 2 teaspoons ground coriander 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 cups chopped tomatoes (such as Pomì) 2 tablespoons sliced garlic 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 3 tablespoons crumbled feta 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Cut fennel bulbs into 8 wedges each: sprinkle with ground coriander. Chop fennel fronds to equal 1 tablespoon Heat olive oil in a large ovenproof skillet over medium-high. Add fennel wedges: cook 4 minutes. Turn: add chopped tomatoes, sliced garlic, lemon juice, and kosher salt. Bake at 375°F for 15 minutes. Sprinkle with crumbled feta and fronds. 


START RECIPE

 
Fennel-and-Pear Mostarda  
Photo: Alison Miksch 
Active Time 
20 Mins 
Total Time 
1 Hour 45 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 16 (serving size: about 3 tablespoons) 

PAIGE GRANDJEAN  
Equal parts sweet and savory, mostarda is an Italian condiment made with fruit and mustard. While a traditional mostarda usually takes several hours to completely cook and reduce, our version is easily made with your Instant Pot instead. Look for firm, unblemished pears when making this dish. Serve it with a thick-cut pork chop, on a charcuterie board, or in a brie grilled cheese. 

Ingredients 
1 1/2 pounds Bartlett pears, peeled, cored, and cut into 1/2-inch pieces (about 3 1/2 cups) 2 medium fennel bulbs (about 1 1/4 lb.), bulbs chopped, fronds chopped and reserved (about 1 tablespoon) 1/2 teaspoon orange zest plus 1/2 cup fresh juice (from 1 orange) 1/3 cup golden raisins (about 1 1/2 oz.) 2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons mustard seeds 1 1/2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar 1 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt 1/2 teaspoon black peppercorns 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Combine pears, fennel bulb, orange zest, orange juice, raisins, honey, mustard seeds, vinegar, salt, and peppercorns in a 6-quart programmable electric pressure cooker. Close and lock lid of cooker: turn pressure release valve to sealing position. Program cooker to cook on manual on high pressure for 5 minutes. Turn pressure release valve to the venting position to quickly release pressure (steam) from cooker until float valve drops. Carefully remove lid. 

Step 2 
Program cooker to sauté on normal heat. Cook pear mixture, stirring occasionally, until liquid has mostly absorbed, about 8 minutes. Transfer to a medium bowl to cool, about 1 hour. Add reserved fennel fronds to pear mixture: stir to incorporate. 

Chef's Notes 
This recipe was developed using the Instant Pot IP-DUO60 V2 pressure cooker 


START RECIPE


Citrus-Pickled Shrimp with Fennel and Potatoes 
Greg DuPree 
Prep Time 
30 Mins 
Total Time 
8 Hours 
Yield 
Serves 6 (serving size: about 1 1/3 cups) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
This heaped platter wouldn’t be out of place at a picnic on a hot day, but it’s so satisfying on winter nights, too. The shrimp picks up plenty of acid and heat with a gentle pickle of citrus, crushed red pepper, and garlic. The warm potatoes, crunchy fennel, and celery slices make it a meal. If you don’t have 1-quart containers, you can pickle the mixture in a covered bowl or two large ziplock bags, turning occasionally. 

Ingredients 
1 1/2 pounds large raw shrimp, peeled and deveined (tails on) 3/4 cup white wine vinegar 1/2 cup fresh lemon juice 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1 teaspoon sugar 2 cups thinly vertically sliced yellow onion 1 teaspoon celery seeds 1 teaspoon crushed red pepper 4 garlic cloves, smashed 2 large or 4 small bay leaves 1 lemon, halved lengthwise and thinly sliced 1 orange, halved lengthwise and thinly sliced 1 medium fennel bulb, cored and sliced, fronds reserved 1 pound small red potatoes 2 celery stalks, thinly diagonally sliced 2 tablespoons celery leaves 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Bring a large saucepan filled with water to a boil over medium-high. Add shrimp: cook 2 minutes or just until pink. Drain: plunge shrimp into a bowl of ice water. Let stand 5 minutes: drain. 

Step 2 
Combine vinegar, lemon juice, olive oil, salt, and sugar in a large bowl, stirring until sugar dissolves. Add shrimp, onion, and next 7 ingredients (through fennel bulb): toss to coat. Divide shrimp mixture between 2 (1-quart) containers. Cover and refrigerate 8 hours or overnight. 

Step 3 
Bring a large saucepan filled with water to a boil over medium-high. Add potatoes: cook 15 minutes or until tender. Drain. Let stand 15 minutes: cut in half. 

Step 4 
Pour both containers of shrimp mixture through a fine-mesh sieve over a bowl: reserve 1/3 cup pickling liquid. Remove garlic and bay leaves: discard. Chop reserved fennel fronds to equal 2 tablespoons. Combine potatoes, shrimp mixture, reserved 1/3 cup pickling liquid, fennel fronds, celery, and celery leaves in a large bowl: toss. Arrange shrimp mixture on a platter. 



START RECIPE


Fennel and Blood Orange Salad 
Photo: Jennifer Causey 
Active Time 
15 Mins 
Total Time 
15 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 8 (serving size: about 1 cup) 
EMILY NABORS HALL November 2017 
This salad is a feast for the eyes, and a welcome relief from the brown and gold tones on the Thanksgiving table. Sweet-tart blood oranges and a honey vinaigrette offset the bitter edge of the endive and radicchio (you can also use milder romaine lettuce hearts). If you can’t find blood oranges, try ruby red grapefruit or pretty pink Cara Cara oranges.  

Ingredients 
2 blood oranges 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 2 tablespoons white wine vinegar 2 teaspoons honey 3/4 teaspoon kosher salt 3/4 teaspoon black pepper 1 (10-oz.) head curly endive, leaves separated 1 (10-oz.) head radicchio, chopped 1 (10-oz.) fennel bulb, cored and thinly sliced 1/3 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts 1/4 cup torn fresh mint 1 small shallot, thinly sliced 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Peel and section oranges over a bowl: reserve. Squeeze membranes over a bowl to extract juice. Whisk together 2 tablespoons juice, oil, vinegar, honey, salt, and pepper in a bowl. 

Step 2 
Arrange orange sections, endive, radicchio, and fennel on a large platter. Sprinkle with hazelnuts, mint, and shallot. Drizzle with juice mixture. 


START RECIPE

Pork Tenderloin with Mushrooms, Fennel, and Blue Cheese 
How to Make Pork Tenderloin with Mushrooms, Fennel and Blue Cheese 
This gorgeous main looks and feels complex, though it actually couldn’t be simpler. It also uses just one skillet, first to sear and roast the pork, then to sauté the fennel and mushrooms until caramelized and tender. 
Pause 
Mute 
Current Time 0:01 
/
Duration Time 0:57 
Loaded: 0%Progress: 0% 
 
Share 
Captions 
Fullscreen 

Active Time 
20 Mins 
Total Time 
40 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 3 oz. pork and about 1 cup vegetables) 
ROBIN BASHINSKY October 2017 
This gorgeous main looks and feels complex, though it actually couldn’t be simpler. It also uses just one skillet, first to sear and roast the pork, then to sauté the fennel and mushrooms until caramelized and tender. If you need to speed up the recipe, transfer the pork to a baking sheet before baking, and cook the fennel mixture on the stove while the pork roasts. The blue cheese adds a pungent kick that elevates every component. If the flavor is too strong, you could substitute crumbled goat cheese or a shaved pecorino Romano (an aged sheep’s milk cheese).  

Ingredients 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 (1-lb.) pork tenderloin 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, divided 1/2 teaspoon black pepper, divided 3 cups thinly sliced fennel bulb 3 garlic cloves, thinly sliced 1 (8-oz.) pkg. presliced cremini mushrooms 1/2 cup unsalted chicken stock (such as Swanson) 3 cups loosely packed arugula 2 ounces blue cheese, crumbled (about 1/2 cup) 2 tablespoons chopped fennel fronds 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Preheat oven to 400°F. 

Step 2 
Heat oil in a large ovenproof skillet over medium-high. Sprinkle pork with 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Add pork to pan: cook 6 to 8 minutes, turning to brown on all sides. Place pan in oven: bake at 400°F for 18 minutes or until a thermometer inserted in the center registers 140°F. Place pork on a cutting board: let stand 5 minutes. Cut crosswise into slices. 

Step 3 
Return pan to medium-high (use caution: the handle will be very hot). Add fennel, garlic, and mushrooms: cook 5 minutes or until golden, stirring occasionally. Add stock: bring to a boil. Cook 3 minutes or until liquid is reduced by half. Remove pan from heat: stir in remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt, remaining 1/4 teaspoon pepper, and arugula until wilted. Arrange pork on a platter: top evenly with fennel mixture, cheese, and fennel fronds. 



START RECIPE


Raw and Roasted Carrots and Fennel 
Photo: Justin Walker 
Active Time 
10 Mins 
Total Time 
35 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 8 (serving size: 3/4 cup) 
ALISON ROMAN November 2017 
This salad demonstrates the magic that happens when you show both the raw and cooked sides of ingredients. If using carrots without tops, substitute 1 cup chopped fresh cilantro, parsley, or dill for the chopped carrot tops. Caramelized, tender bits of carrots and fennel mingle with fresh slices of their raw, crunchy counterparts.   

Ingredients 
1 large fennel bulb, halved lengthwise and divided 1 bunch small carrots with tops, divided 1 bunch scallions, halved crosswise and divided 5 tablespoons olive oil, divided 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, divided 1/2 teaspoon black pepper, divided 3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 cup chopped fresh cilantro (tender leaves and stems, from 1 bunch) 3 ounces feta cheese, crumbled (about 3/4 cup) 1/4 cup toasted unsalted pistachios, chopped 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Preheat oven to 425°F. 

Step 2 
Cut one of the fennel bulb halves into 1/2-inch-thick wedges, and place on a parchment paper-lined baking sheet. Trim tops from carrots, and chop tops to equal 1 cup: set aside. Scrub carrots (do not peel), and add half of carrots to fennel wedges. Add half of scallions and 3 tablespoons olive oil. Sprinkle with 1/4 teaspoon each salt and pepper: toss to coat. Roast at 425°F for 18 minutes or until carrots and fennel are completely tender and scallions begin to char, tossing occasionally. Remove from oven: cool to room temperature. 

Step 3 
Thinly slice remaining carrots, fennel, and scallions diagonally into 3-inch-long pieces: place in a large bowl. 

Step 4 
Add cooled roasted vegetables to raw vegetables in bowl. Add juice, cilantro, and carrot tops: toss. Sprinkle with remaining 1/4 teaspoon each salt and pepper: drizzle with remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil, and top with feta and pistachios. Serve immediately, or let stand at room temperature 1 hour. 

START RECIPE


Pork Medallions with Fennel-Apple Slaw 
Photo: Jennifer Causey 
Active Time 
25 Mins 
Total Time 
35 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 3 oz. pork, 1 1/2 cups slaw, and 2 tbsp. sauce) 
MARK DRISKILL September 2017 
Ingredients 
1 (6-oz.) sweet potato, halved lengthwise and thinly sliced 1/4 cup olive oil, divided 1 (1-lb.) pork tenderloin, trimmed and cut into 1/2-in.-thick slices 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, divided 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1/2 cup hard apple cider or regular cider 2 tablespoons grainy mustard 2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 2 tablespoons unsalted butter 2 cups thinly sliced apple 1 cup thinly sliced fennel bulb, plus fennel fronds for garnish 2 tablespoons sliced shallot 2 tablespoons minced parsley 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Preheat oven to 450°F. 

Step 2 
Combine potato slices and 1 tablespoon oil on a rimmed baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Bake at 450°F for 10 minutes or until tender. 

Step 3 
Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a skillet over medium-high. Top pork slices with 1/4 teaspoon salt and pepper. Add to pan: cook 5 minutes on one side. Remove from pan: add cider, and cook 1 minute. Stir in mustards. Remove pan from heat: stir in butter. Add pork to pan: let stand 3 minutes. 

Step 4 
Combine potatoes, remaining 2 tablespoons oil, remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt, apple, fennel bulb, and remaining ingredients in a bowl. Serve slaw with pork and pan sauce. Garnish with fennel fronds. 


START RECIPE

Crab, Fennel and Basil Spaghetti 
Photo: Caitlin Bensel 
Active Time 
20 Mins 
Total Time 
20 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 1 3/4 cups) 
COLU HENRY August 2017 
For author Colu Henry, shellfish with pasta screams summer and conjures up memories of sand and sea. This dish combines delicate, sweet crabmeat with anise-y fennel, which play nicely together for a simple, light pasta, perfect for the warmer weather. Fresh herbs such as the mint and basil add additional brightness and layers of flavor. Feel free to “back pocket” your way around this dish, substituting quickly sautéed shrimp or a flaky white fish for the crab and playing with delicate herbs such as tarragon, chives, and chervil. 

Ingredients 
8 ounces uncooked spaghetti 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 cups sliced cored fennel bulb (about 1 medium) 1 teaspoon crushed red pepper 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 2 garlic cloves, thinly sliced 12 ounces fresh lump crabmeat, picked 5 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley, divided 2 tablespoons thinly sliced fresh basil 2 tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh mint 4 lemon wedges 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Cook pasta according to package directions, omitting fat and salt. Drain pasta over a bowl, reserving 3/4 cup pasta cooking liquid for the sauce. 

Step 2 
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium. Add fennel: sauté 7 minutes. Add crushed red pepper, salt, and garlic: cook 1 minute. Add crab: cook 2 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add pasta and reserved 3/4 cup pasta cooking liquid: toss to coat. Stir in 3 tablespoons parsley. 

Step 3 
Divide pasta mixture among 4 bowls: top evenly with remaining 2 tablespoons parsley, basil, and mint. Serve with lemon wedges. 


START RECIPE

Braised Fennel with Parmesan Breadcrumbs 
3 Reviews 
ADD YOUR REVIEW 
Braised Fennel with Parmesan Breadcrumbs 
Photo: Brian Kennedy: Styling: Lindsey Lower 
Hands-on Time 
15 Mins 
Total Time 
35 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 6 (serving size: 3 fennel wedges and about 2 tablespoons breadcrumb mixture) 
DAVID JOACHIM March 2015 
RECIPE BY COOKING LIGHT 
A quick sear in a little butter caramelizes the fennel wedges and mellows their licorice notes, while braising in stock transforms the texture from crunchy to meltingly tender, almost velvety. Breadcrumbs spiked with nutty Parm-Reg top off this fast, supersimple side. Pair with quickly seared pork chops or roasted chicken thighs. 

Ingredients 
3 medium fennel bulbs, trimmed and halved lengthwise 4 teaspoons butter, divided 1/2 cup dry white wine 1/2 cup unsalted chicken stock (such as Swanson) 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 4 thyme sprigs 1/2 cup fresh breadcrumbs 1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 1 ounce Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese, grated (about 1/4 cup) 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Cut each fennel half into 3 wedges. Melt 2 teaspoons butter in a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add fennel: cook 7 minutes or until browned, stirring occasionally. Add wine, stock, salt, pepper, and thyme sprigs: bring to a ­simmer. Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 20 minutes or until tender. Increase heat to medium-high: cook, uncovered, 1 minute or until liquid is slightly thickened. Remove thyme sprigs from pan: discard. 

Step 2 
Melt remaining 2 teaspoons butter in a small skillet over medium heat. Add breadcrumbs: cook 3 minutes or until browned, stirring frequently. Remove pan from heat: stir in parsley and cheese. Arrange fennel wedges on a platter. Sprinkle breadcrumb mixture evenly over fennel. 



START RECIPE


Sweet-and-Sour Bok Choy 
Jennifer Causey 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 2/3 cup) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
Oyster sauce and a pinch of sugar add caramel flavor and color to the bok choy. A little butter turns the sauce into a glaze. This side would be excellent with a spicy main like a Szechuan-style stir-fry or a chile-laden sauce for meat or fish. 

Ingredients 
2 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 1/2 tablespoons oyster sauce 1/8 teaspoon sugar 2 teaspoons canola oil 1 pound quartered baby bok choy 1 tablespoon thinly sliced garlic 1 tablespoon unsalted butter 2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Combine rice vinegar, oyster sauce, and sugar in a small bowl. Heat canola oil in a skillet over medium-high. Add bok choy: cook until browned, about 4 minutes. 

Step 2 
Reduce heat to medium: cover and cook until tender, about 3 minutes. Add garlic: cook 1 minute. Add oyster sauce mixture and unsalted butter: cook, stirring occasionally, 1 minute. Sprinkle with fresh basil. 


START RECIPE


Tahini Chicken with Bok Choy and Mango Salad 
Photo: Caitlin Bensel 
Active Time 
15 Mins 
Total Time 
20 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: about 1 1/2 cups bok choy mixture and 3/4 cup chicken) 
PAIGE GRANDJEAN October 2017 
Tahini and honey create a beautifully charred crust on boneless, skinless chicken thigh and transform this everyday protein. Make sure the tahini is stirred until smooth and pourable before measuring. If you can’t find mango, you can substitute navel orange sections. You can also double the chicken and tahini mixture and serve over tabbouleh or in vegetable wraps for quick lunches during the week.  

Ingredients 
3 tablespoons tahini (sesame seed paste), well stirred 4 teaspoons honey, divided 4 (4-oz.) skinless, boneless chicken thighs 1 tablespoon canola oil 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil 2 tablespoons unseasoned rice vinegar 1 tablespoon reduced-sodium soy sauce 4 cups thinly sliced baby bok choy 2 cups thinly sliced red cabbage 1 1/2 cups chopped peeled mango Fresh cilantro leaves 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Combine tahini and 1 tablespoon honey in a small bowl, stirring with a whisk. Heat a grill pan over medium-high. Rub chicken thighs with canola oil: sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add chicken to pan: cook 4 to 5 minutes on each side or until done. Brush tahini mixture over both sides of chicken: cook 30 seconds on each side or until lightly charred. Remove chicken from pan: cut into 1-inch pieces. 

Step 2 
Combine remaining 1 teaspoon honey, sesame oil, vinegar, and soy sauce in a large bowl. Add bok choy, cabbage, and mango: toss to coat. Divide salad evenly among 4 bowls: top with chicken. Sprinkle evenly with cilantro. 


START RECIPE


Shiitake-and-Sesame Bok Choy 
Jennifer Causey 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 2/3 cup) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
Shiitake mushrooms are thinner and denser than cremini or button mushrooms: they’ll brown quickly in the pan without releasing too much liquid. These mushrooms also have a rich, meaty flavor that boosts the bok choy and marries well with the toasted sesame oil. 

Ingredients 
1 pound quartered baby bok choy 2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil 8 ounces sliced shiitake mushrooms 3 sliced green onions 3 minced garlic cloves 2 teaspoons fresh lime juice 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 tablespoon chopped cilantro 1 teaspoon toasted sesame seeds 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Heat toasted sesame oil in a skillet over medium-high. Add bok choy: cook until browned, about 4 minutes. Reduce heat to medium: cover and cook until tender, 3 minutes. Remove bok choy from pan. Add toasted sesame oil and sliced shiitake mushrooms to pan: cook 2 minutes. 

Step 2 
Stir in sliced green onions and minced garlic cloves: cook 30 seconds. Add cooked bok choy, fresh lime juice, kosher salt, and black pepper: cook 1 minute. Top with chopped cilantro and toasted sesame seeds. 


START RECIPE

Ginger-Chile Bok Choy 
Jennifer Causey 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: about 2/3 cup) 
COOKING LIGHT January 2018 
The secret to tender, lightly bronzed bok choy is to brown first, then reduce the heat and gently sauté until tender. We kick up the heat with red Fresno chile: use just one or omit and double the garlic depending on what you like. Mirin is a sweet rice wine that will counter the spice. You can sub 1 tablespoon unseasoned rice vinegar combined with 1/2 teaspoon sugar. 

Ingredients 
4 teaspoons canola oil 1 pound quartered baby bok choy 1 tablespoon minced peeled fresh ginger 2 sliced, seeded red Fresno chiles 1 sliced garlic clove 1 tablespoon mirin 2 tablespoons chopped roasted unsalted peanuts 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Heat 2 teaspoons canola oil in a skillet over medium-high. Add bok choy: cook until browned, 4 minutes. Reduce heat to medium: cover and cook until tender, 3 minutes. Remove bok choy from pan. Add 2 teaspoons canola oil: ginger: chiles: and garlic clove to pan. Cook, stirring often, 2 minutes. 

Step 2 
Add mirin, stirring to scrape up browned bits. Return bok choy to pan: cook 2 minutes. Sprinkle with peanuts and kosher salt. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Bok Choy Wedge with Blue Cheese-Buttermilk Dressing 
How to Make Grilled Bok Choy Wedge with Blue Cheese-Buttermilk Dressing 
Grilled bok choy has a pleasantly bitter edge, which is softened by the sweet tomatoes and cooling contrast of tangy blue cheese dressing.  Ready in just 15 minutes, this simple salad is full of fresh ingredients and bold flavors. 
Pause 
Mute 
Current Time 0:00 
/
Duration Time 0:53 
Loaded: 0%Progress: 0% 
 
Share 
Captions 
Fullscreen 

Active Time 
15 Mins 
Total Time 
15 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 2 bok choy halves, 2 tbsp. dressing, 1/4 cup tomatoes, and 1 tbsp. onions) 
ROBIN BASHINSKY August 2017 
Bok choy adds a funky edge to our riff on a classic steak house salad. Charring the bok choy lends the leaves crisp-tender contrast and a hint of smokiness. A screaming-hot cooking surface is the trick to marking and warming the cabbage without cooking it too much. Grilled bok choy has a pleasantly bitter edge, which is softened by the sweet tomatoes and cooling contrast of tangy blue cheese dressing. Ready in just 15 minutes, this simple salad is full of fresh ingredients and bold flavors. Serve it with a soy-basted steak or piece of grilled fish for a steak house–quality meal at home 

Ingredients 
Cooking spray 4 (4-oz.) bok choy heads, halved lengthwise 1/4 cup low-fat buttermilk 1 ounce blue cheese, crumbled (about 1/4 cup) 1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar 1 teaspoon granulated sugar 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 cup halved grape tomatoes (about 6 oz.) 1/4 cup crispy fried onions (such as French's) 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Heat a grill pan over high. Coat pan with cooking spray. Place bok choy halves, cut side down, on pan. Cook 2 minutes per side, until both sides are marked and lightly charred. Remove from pan. 

Step 2 
Stir together buttermilk, blue cheese, vinegar, sugar, and pepper in a bowl. Place bok choy halves, cut side up, on a serving platter. Top evenly with buttermilk dressing, and sprinkle evenly with tomatoes and fried onions. 


START RECIPE


Sweet-and-Sour Sesame Bok Choy with Pork 
Photo: Greg Dupree 
Active Time 
20 Mins 
Total Time 
20 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: 1 cup bok choy mixture and 3/4 cup rice) 
ROBIN BASHINSKY August 2017 
Our Asian stir-fry takes full advantage of bok choy’s richly verdant leaves and crunchy core. The sweet-and-sour sauce offers a tangy edge and blast of umami that evokes layers upon layers of flavor. Chinese-style hot mustard has a sharp bite similar to that of wasabi: look for it at large supermarkets on the international foods aisle or at your local Asian market. The pork may stick to the pan at first, but this produces little crispy bits that will easily come up once the fat from the pork starts to render. We save the sesame oil for the end, which lends a mightier mouthfeel and silky finish 

Ingredients 
1/2 cup unsalted chicken stock 3 tablespoons reduced-sodium soy sauce 2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 tablespoon Chinese hot mustard 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper 12 ounces ground pork 1 pound baby or small bok choy, quartered lengthwise 1 cup matchstick-cut carrots 2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil 3 cups hot cooked brown rice 2 teaspoons black or white sesame seeds (optional) 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Whisk together stock, soy sauce, honey, vinegar, mustard, cornstarch, and crushed red pepper in a bowl. Set aside. 

Step 2 
Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high. Add pork: cook, stirring often and scraping bottom of pan with a wooden spoon to loosen browned bits, until pork is browned and crumbled, 4 to 5 minutes. Remove pork from pan with a slotted spoon. 

Step 3 
Add bok choy and carrots to drippings in pan: cook over medium-high until slightly wilted, 2 to 3 minutes. Add stock mixture and pork. Bring to a boil: cook until thickened, 1 to 2 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in sesame oil. 

Step 4 
Serve over rice, and sprinkle with sesame seeds, if desired. 




START RECIPE

Sichuan Beef Soup 
2 Reviews 
ADD YOUR REVIEW 
Sichuan Beef Soup 
Photo: Marcus Nilsson: Styling: Angharad Bailey 
Hands-on Time 
30 Mins 
Total Time 
11 Hours 30 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 
JEANNE KELLEY September 2012 
RECIPE BY COOKING LIGHT 
Beef shank works beautifully for slow-cooked soups, breaking down during long simmering to render the aromatic broth superbeefy. 

Ingredients 
3 quarts water 2 pounds (2-inch-thick) bone-in beef shanks 2 teaspoons peanut oil or canola oil 1 cup chopped white onion 2 teaspoons minced peeled fresh ginger 2 garlic cloves, chopped 6 cups water 1 tablespoon chile garlic sauce 1 1/2 teaspoons black bean garlic sauce (such as Lee Kum Kee) 1 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorns 3 star anise 1 cup sliced green onions, divided 1 tablespoon brown sugar 2 tablespoons lower-sodium soy sauce 2 plum tomatoes, chopped 2 baby bok choy, cut in half lengthwise 1/2 pound fresh Chinese-style wheat noodles 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Bring 3 quarts water to a boil in a large Dutch oven. Add beef shanks: boil until surface of meat is no longer red (about 6 minutes). Drain shanks: cool slightly. Remove meat from bones: reserve bones. Cut meat into cubes. 

Step 2 
Rinse pan: wipe clean with paper towels. Heat pan over high heat. Add oil: swirl to coat. Add white onion, ginger, and garlic: stir-fry 4 minutes or until browned. Stir in 6 cups water, chile garlic sauce, and black bean sauce. Place peppercorns and star anise on a double layer of cheesecloth. Gather edges of cheesecloth together: tie securely. Add cheesecloth bag, 1/2 cup green onions, sugar, and soy sauce to pan. Return meat and bones to pan. Bring to a simmer. Partially cover, and simmer gently for 2 hours or until meat is tender. Uncover and simmer 1 hour or until reduced to about 5 cups. Cool to room temperature: cover and chill overnight. 

Step 3 
Skim fat from soup: discard fat. Discard bones and cheesecloth bag. Bring soup to a simmer. Add tomatoes and bok choy: cook 5 minutes or until bok choy is tender. 

Step 4 
Cook noodles according to package directions. Place about 1/2 cup noodles in each of 4 bowls. Ladle 1 cup soup into each bowl, dividing bok choy evenly. Sprinkle each serving with 2 tablespoons green onions and 1 tablespoon cilantro. 


START RECIPE


Veggie and Tofu Stir-Fry 
23 Reviews 
ADD YOUR REVIEW 
Veggie and Tofu Stir-Fry 
Photo: Johnny Autry: Styling: Cindy Barr 
Hands-on Time 
19 Mins 
Total Time 
49 Mins 
Yield 
Serves 4 (serving size: about 1 1/2 cups) 
CHARLOTTE AUTRY January 2013 
RECIPE BY COOKING LIGHT 
Veggie and Tofu Stir-Fry gives you that delicious seared, slightly smoky taste that you enjoy in a good Chinese restaurant but are the results from your own wok. 

Ingredients 
1 (14-ounce) package water-packed extra-firm tofu, drained 1 tablespoon canola oil, divided 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 3 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch, divided 3 large green onions, cut into 1-inch pieces 3 garlic cloves, sliced 1 tablespoon julienne-cut ginger 4 small baby bok choy, quartered lengthwise 2 large carrots, peeled and julienne-cut 1 cup snow peas, trimmed 2 tablespoons Shaoxing (Chinese rice wine) or dry sherry 1/4 cup organic vegetable broth 2 tablespoons lower-sodium soy sauce 1 tablespoon hoisin sauce 1 teaspoon dark sesame oil 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Cut tofu lengthwise into 4 equal pieces: cut each piece crosswise into 1/2-inch squares. Place tofu on several layers of paper towels: cover with additional paper towels. Let stand 30 minutes, pressing down occasionally. 

Step 2 
Heat a large wok or skillet over high heat. Add 1 1/2 teaspoons canola oil to pan: swirl to coat. Combine tofu, pepper, and 2 teaspoons cornstarch in a medium bowl: toss to coat. Add tofu to pan: stir-fry 8 minutes, turning to brown on all sides. Remove tofu from pan with a slotted spoon: place in a medium bowl. Add onions, garlic, and ginger to pan: stir-fry 1 minute. Remove from pan: add to tofu. 

Step 3 
Add remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons canola oil to pan: swirl to coat. Add bok choy: stir-fry 3 minutes. Add carrots: stir-fry 2 minutes. Add snow peas: stir-fry 1 minute. Add Shaoxing: cook 30 seconds, stirring constantly. Stir in tofu mixture. 

Step 4 
Combine remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch, broth, and remaining ingredients in a small bowl, stirring with a whisk. Add broth mixture to pan: cook until slightly thickened (about 1 minute). 

Chef's Notes 
MyRecipes is working with Let's Move!, the Partnership for a Healthier America, and USDA's MyPlate to give anyone looking for healthier options access to a trove of recipes that will help them create healthy, tasty plates. For more information about creating a healthy plate, visit www.choosemyplate.gov. 



START RECIPE

Beef and Bok Choy Hot Pot 
11 Reviews 
ADD YOUR REVIEW 
Beef and Bok Choy Hot Pot 
Photography: Randy Mayor: Styling: Jan Gautro 
Yield 
4 servings (serving size: 1 1/2 cups beef mixture and 1/2 cup noodles) 
MYRECIPES April 2003 
RECIPE BY COOKING LIGHT 
You'll need a fork and a spoon to enjoy this meal. You can use most any greens in place of the bok choy, including spinach or Napa cabbage. 

Ingredients 
2 1/4 cups water 3/4 cup low-salt beef broth 1/3 cup rice vinegar 1/3 cup low-sodium soy sauce 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 pound beef stew meat, cut into bite-sized pieces 1 1/4 cups chopped green onions 1 garlic clove, minced 1 teaspoon minced peeled fresh ginger 2 cups thinly sliced bok choy 1 1/2 cups thinly sliced carrot 2 cups hot cooked wide rice noodles or fettuccine 
GET INGREDIENTS 
Powered by Chicory 
al Information   
How to Make It 
Step 1 
Combine first 6 ingredients, stirring with a whisk: set aside. 

Step 2 
Heat vegetable oil in a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat: add beef, browning on all sides. Add broth mixture, green onions, garlic, and ginger: bring to a boil. 

Step 3 
Cover, reduce heat, and simmer for 1 hour and 30 minutes or until beef is tender. Stir in bok choy and carrot, and cook 5 minutes or until tender. Serve beef mixture over noodles. 



START RECIPE
HOMEMADE BUTTERMILK 	 
Buttermilk is a healthy, low-fat addition to baked goods that helps to tenderize yeast breads and makes quick breads, muffins, waffles and pancakes lighter. 
When buttermilk is used to replace plain milk in baking, baking soda can usually be used to replace part or all of the baking powder, thereby helping to eliminate one more chemical in the diet. Buttermilk can often serve as a replacement for sour cream, too. 

Buttermilk may also be consumed as Kefir or yogurt would and its incorporation into the diet shares many of the same healthful benefits. Here is a simple method for making your own buttermilk at home! 

4 cups water (70-80°F) 
1 1/3 cups non-fat dry milk powder 
1 cup store-bought buttermilk (70-80°F) 
Have a clean, 1 quart glass jar ready. 
Bring 5 cups water to a boil. Remove 1 cup of water and pour it into the glass jar to sterilize it. Cover tightly and shake it around so that the hot water reaches all parts of the jar. Discard water. 

Allow the remaining 4 cups of water in the pan to cool slightly, then stir in the non-fat dry milk powder: stir until dissolved. 

Remove 1 cup commercial buttermilk from the refrigerator and allow to come to room temperature. 

When the boiled water/milk powder cools to 70-80°F, stir in the room temperature buttermilk. 

Cover jar with cheesecloth (do not cap). Set aside until the mixture is clabbered (about 12-18 hours). The buttermilk will thicken. 

Cover tightly and refrigerate until needed. 

Always reserve 1 cup of the buttermilk as a starter for the next batch. Making buttermilk is similar to making yogurt: to be successful, you'll need to start off with buttermilk that contains active live cultures. 

Cooks Note: If you're in a hurry, the boiled water step may be skipped, but we like to begin with sterilized water to make a good environment for the buttermilk cultures. You may also use bottled or filtered water. 

Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE
CASSEROLE SOUP MIX	 
This recipe for homemade soup mix can be used in place of canned condensed soups such as cream of mushroom, cream of celery or cream of chicken called for in many casserole recipes. 
Extra flavor and quality can be had by substituting low sodium soup base for chicken bouillon when the soup is reconstituted. This will allow for additional variations, such as using beef or vegetable flavorings instead of the chicken flavoring of the basic soup mix. Soup base is a concentrated and condensed soup stock available at restaurant supply stores and by mail order. 

Corn starch may be replaced with modified food starch or potato starch, which has less of a tendency to lump and often has the ability to thicken cold liquids. 

Adjust the seasonings to taste: we prefer smaller amounts of thyme and basil and we add a pinch of garlic and onion (powder or fresh). Of course, if you have a blender and fresh fruits available, fresh vegetable puree can be added. 

Basic Casserole Soup Mix: 
2 c. non-fat dry milk crystals 
3/4 c. cornstarch 
1/4 c. Instant chicken bouillon 
2 tbsp. dried onion flakes 
1 tsp. dried thyme, crushed (optional) 
1 tsp. dried basil, crushed 
1 tsp. pepper 
butter 
Combine all ingredients and store in an airtight container. To use a substitute for one 10-1/2 ounce can condensed soup, mix 1/3 cup of dry mix with 1-1/4 cup water in saucepan. Cook and stir until thickened. Add 1 tablespoon butter, if desired. butter adds 11.5 grams of fat. 
Cooks Tip: We prefer to use low-sodium bouillon powder which we feel has extra flavor and less sodium in the bargain. 

Yield: Enough mix to substitute 9 cans condensed soup. 

Comparison of commercial condensed soup and homemade substitute.: 


Source: Iowa State University. 
Optional Additions: 
Enhancements to the basic mix should be added at the last minute when making up the soup for your casserole.
Dehydrated vegetable powders may be kept on hand to flavor the basic soup mix: mushroom powder for mushroom soup, celery powder for celery soup, tomato powder for tomato soup, etc. Adding these extras to enhance the soup is entirely optional, and the flavorings should not be added to the basic soup mix, but may be added when making the soup up for your recipe, if desired. You can make your own mushroom powder by processing dehydrated mushrooms in the food processor. The same can be done to make vegetable powder. Keep these in an airtight container, separate from the mix until ready to use, since they will absorb moisture from the air readily. 

Low sodium soup base is available at most restaurant supply stores and online in chicken, beef and vegetable flavors. 

Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE
PARTY PITA WEDGES 	 
2 regular sized pita pockets (6 inch) 
2 large cloves garlic, minced 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon butter 
1/4 teaspoon oregano 
1/4 teaspoon sea salt 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 
16 slices pepperoni 
4 round slices provolone cheese 
1/3 cup medium chunky salsa 
In a heatproof cup or bowl heat olive oil, oregano, salt and pepper in microwave on high for 40 seconds. Remove and add butter. Stir and set aside. 
Using kitchen scissors, cut pita pockets into 4 pizza slice shaped wedges (slice in half, then slice each half again to make the wedges). Cut again along curved outer edge to separate into 2. Brush both sides of the pita wedges with warm olive oil mixture, coating well. 

Place wedges crust side down on a baking sheet. Spread 1 teaspoon of salsa to top each wedge. Cut provolone slices into 4 wedge shapes and place one on top of each. Top with a slice of pepperoni, if desired. Drizzle with any remaining olive oil and sprinkle lightly with coarse sea salt. 

Bake in a preheated 375°F oven for 15 minutes or until golden brown and cheese is bubbly. Serve while still warm. 

Makes 16 wedges. 

Variation: Cut pita into 4 wedge shaped pockets. Fill the same way as above (but only half as much cheese wedges and pepperoni slices will be needed if making pockets instead of crusts). 

Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE
GROUND TURKEY & CUCUMBER RANCH PITAS	  
1 lb ground turkey 
1 tbsp. dill 
1/2 to 1 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. pepper 
1 chopped English cucumber 
Ranch Dressing 
pita pockets 
Brown ground turkey on the stove with a little olive oil or butter. Add dill, salt and pepper. Mix in and cook until turkey is cooked through. Chop up cucumber while turkey is cooking. 
Once meat is cooked, add cucumber. Scoop mixture into pita pockets, and top with Ranch Dressing. 

Enjoy! :) 

Submitted by: Lauren 



START RECIPE

PITA PIZZA 	 
1/4 lb. ground beef 
1 1/2 c. tomato sauce 
10 (4 to 6 inch) pita pocket breads 
3 oz. shredded Mozzarella cheese 
Brown ground beef: allow each child to decide if he/she would like a thick of thin crust pizza. 
Thin crusts can be made by cutting a pita in half horizontally. Spread 1 to 2 tablespoons tomato sauce on pita bread. Top with hamburger and cheese. Place pizzas on lightly greased cookie sheet Bake at 400 degrees for 10 minutes until cheese is melted. Makes 10 pizzas. 



START RECIPE

GROUND TURKEY & CUCUMBER RANCH PITAS 	 
1 lb ground turkey 
1 tbsp. dill 
1/2 to 1 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. pepper 
1 chopped English cucumber 
Ranch Dressing 
pita pockets 
Brown ground turkey on the stove with a little olive oil or butter. Add dill, salt and pepper. Mix in and cook until turkey is cooked through. Chop up cucumber while turkey is cooking. 
Once meat is cooked, add cucumber. Scoop mixture into pita pockets, and top with Ranch Dressing. 

Enjoy! :) 

Submitted by: Lauren 


START RECIPE

SHERRY'S MEDITERRANEAN PITA SANDWICHES	  
16 prepared falafel pieces 
1/2 cup store bought tzatziki sauce 
1 tsp. chopped fresh mint 
4 whole wheat pita breads with pockets, halved 
2 cups torn romaine lettuce leaves 
2 tomatoes, sliced 
Heat falafel in microwave as directed on pkg. In a bowl, stir together tzatziki sauce and mint. Fill each pita half with some lettuce and a few slices of tomato. Cut falafel in half. Top with sauce. 
Submitted by: Sherry Monfils 


START RECIPE

VEGETABLE PITA POCKETS	  
1/2 c. coarsely shredded lettuce 
1/2 c. alfalfa sprouts 
1/2 c. shredded Cheddar cheese 
1/2 c. shredded carrots 
1/4 c. raisins 
1/4 c. chopped pecans 
2 (6) pita bread 
Yogurt dressing (follows) 
Combine the first 6 ingredients, tossing gently. Cut bread in half: spoon vegetable mixture into bread, top with Yogurt Dressing. Serve immediately. Serves 4. 


START RECIPE

BEST BLOODY MARY  
6 oz V-8 Juice 
Tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
2-3 dashes hot sauce (Louisiana or Tabasco) 
cracked fresh black pepper 
1/4 fresh lime divided 
2 oz vodka 
cracked ice 
celery stick (cleaned but untrimmed or dill pickle) 
Shake V-8, Worcestershire, hot sauce, two grinds of pepper, 1/8 of lime juiced, and vodka together. 
Pour over cracked ice in 12 oz glass. Twist remaining 1/8 lime over drink and add a grind of pepper. Poke celery or pickle into drink and enjoy. 

Submitted by: John K 





START RECIPE

BEST FISH MARINADE  
1 bottle Louisiana hot sauce 
1 bottle water (measured in hot sauce bottle) 
1 c. Worcestershire sauce 
1 tbsp. Accent 
1 tbsp. onion powder 
1 tsp. garlic powder 
1 tsp. all season pepper 
Mix all ingredients well. Marinate fish in sauce in closed container in refrigerator for 15 to 30 minutes: then fry in hot oil after battering with corn meal. 



START RECIPE
VEGETABLE CALZONES 	 
1 tbsp. butter 
1/2 c. finely chopped onion 
1 sm. glove garlic, crushed 
1/4 tsp. dried oregano 
1 (10 oz.) pkg. frozen chopped spinach, thawed 
1 (15 oz.) pkg. Ricotta cheese 
1/4 c. grated Parmesan cheese 
4 oz. Mozzarella, cubed 
1 carrot, shredded (1/2 c.) 
1 (1 lb.) loaf white or whole wheat frozen bread dough, thawed according to pkg. directions 
1. In small skillet, melt butter. Add onion and garlic and cook, stirring about 3 minutes. Stir in oregano. Set aside. 
2. Squeeze liquid from spinach, chop more finely. 

3. Heat oven to 425 degrees. 

4. In medium bowl combine onion mixture with all ingredients but bread dough. 

5. Cut bread dough crosswise into 6 equal pieces. On floured surface roll each piece into 5 inch circle, stretching with hands. 

6. Place 1/6 of mixture (1/2 cup) on 1 side of the dough circle. Lightly brush edges of other side with water: fold over filling and press lightly to seal. Gently roll up edges and pinch together. Prick top of calzone several times with fork. 

7. Place calzones on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake 10-15 minutes until lightly browned. Let stand 5 minutes before serving - filling is hot! 



START RECIPE
CALZONE AND FILLING 	 
2 loaves frozen bread dough 
Defrost as per directions on package. 
FILLING FOR CALZONE: 
1 1/2 c. Ricotta cheese 
2 eggs 
1/2 c. grated Parmesan cheese 
1/4 tsp. salt 
1/2 lb. Mozzarella (cut into cubes) 
1/3 c. Prosciutto or ham 
Roll out defrosted dough and spread lightly with olive oil. 
Mix all filling ingredients. Divide in half and spread half on each calzone. Roll dough up like a jelly roll and press down on edges to seal.  Brush top of calzone with oil. Lightly oil 2 cookie sheets and place calzones on sheets. Bake on 450 degrees for 20 minutes until tops are golden. Serve hot. Serves six. 


START RECIPE
BREAKFAST CALZONES 	 
Crust: 
2 cups Bisquick 
3/4 cup milk 
light olive oil 
Filling: 
1/2 c. ricotta cheese 
8 oz. Cheddar cheese, shredded 
4 oz. canned mushrooms 
1/2 small onion 
1/4 lb ground sausage 
Scramble five eggs and divide into four portions. 
Crust: 
Preheat oven to 400°F. 
Mix Bisquick and milk until stiff. Roll into large ball, divide into four smaller balls. Roll each ball into 6 inch circles. Brush filling side with olive oil, then add filling in layers as follows. 

Filling: 
Layer Shredded cheddar, scrambled eggs, ricotta, sausage, onion and mushrooms on one half of each circle.
Moisten edges of dough, then fold each circle over, turnover style, forming 4 Calzones: using tines of fork, press edges to seal. Perforate tops with fork. 

Grease sheet with with butter and place turnovers on sheet: bake until golden 15 to 17 minutes. 

Serve immediately. 

Makes 4, serving 1 calzone each. 

Submitted by: Brian B 


START RECIPE
CALZONES 	 
This is one of my favorites and is not too hard to make and guaranteed to be a hit. They are basically pizza turnovers. Both fillings are excellent. 
THE DOUGH: 
3 c. flour 
1 pkg. dry yeast, 1/4 tsp. sugar dissolved in 1/2 c. warm water 
3/4-1 c. cold milk 
1 1/2 tsp. salt 
2 tbsp. olive oil 
FILLINGS: 
1 pkg. frozen spinach, cooked and drained 
1 c. Ricotta cheese 
1 c. Mozzarella cheese, shredded 
1/2 c. Parmesan cheese 
1 sm. onion, chopped 
1 tsp. garlic powder 
Salt and pepper to taste 
1 egg 
4 Italian sausages 
1 onion, chopped 
1 green pepper, chopped 
4-5 mushrooms, sliced 
1 (12 oz.) can tomato sauce 
1/4 c. Parmesan cheese 
1 c. Mozzarella cheese, shredded 
1 tbsp. olive oil 
1/2 tsp. each oregano, basil, Italian spices, garlic powder 
Salt and pepper to taste 
TO MAKE THE DOUGH: 
1. Measure flour into bowl. Add yeast mixture and oil. Then add salt and cold milk, mix until forms a dough. Let rest 5 minutes. 

2. Turn dough out onto a floured board. Knead 50 strokes or until smooth. Let rest 5 minutes. Knead 20 more strokes. 

3. Let dough rise in a covered bowl for 1 1/2 hours or until double in bulk. Turn out onto floured board and divide into 4. Shape into balls. Cover and let rest 10 minutes. 

4. As dough is rising, prepare filling. 

FOR SAUSAGE FILLING: 

Boil sausages for 10 minutes. Saute onion, pepper, and mushrooms in oil. Slice sausages and saute with vegetables, until sausages are brown and vegetables are tender. Add tomato sauce and spices. Simmer for 30-45 minutes until flavors are well blended. 

FOR SPINACH FILLING: 

Cook spinach until done, drain. Saute onion until tender. Mix egg, cheeses, onion and spinach with spices all together. Fill each calzone with 1/2-3/4 cup of filling and bake as directed. 

5. Preheat oven to 500 degrees. Place large baking sheets in oven. 

6. Twirl each ball of dough into a circle about 12 inches big. Place o pan to be baked on. Put about 1/2-3/4 cup filling on half of dough. For sausage filling, then top with cheeses. Fold dough over and press down edges to seal. Repeat for remaining balls of dough. 

7. Bake for 6 minutes until golden brown. 


START RECIPE
CALZONE APPETIZER WEDGES 	 
Prep Time: 20 minutes (Ready in 1 hour 10 minutes) 
APPETIZERS: 
1 Pillsbury Pie Crust 
1/2 cup Italian bread crumbs 
1/3 cup fresh basil, chopped 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1/4 cup grated Romano, Parmesan or Asiago cheese 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1 cup ricotta cheese 
1/4 cup fresh Italian parsley, minced, stems removed 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 small onion, finely minced 
olive oil spray 
3 diced plum tomatoes 
GARNISH: 
plum tomato, sliced 
fresh basil leaves 
Preheat oven to 400°F. 
Remove pie crust from refrigerator 20 minutes before using. Unroll onto an ungreased baking sheet, Press out 

Using a rolling pin, roll pie crust out to measure 12 inches. 

In a medium bowl, combine bread crumbs, chopped parsley, basil and garlic, grated cheese, salt and pepper, ricotta cheese and oil: mix well.  Stir in diced tomatoes (drain if using canned). Spread mixture over crust to within 3 inches of edge. (Tip: Do not mound mixture in center).  Sprinkle with minced onion and spray lightly with olive oil. 

Fold edge of crust 3 inches over filling, pressing lightly. 

Bake for 25 to 35 minutes or until edges are golden brown. Cool and slice into wedges. Garnish with sliced tomatoes and basil leaves. 

Variation: Add thinly sliced chopped salami, pepperoni, prosciutto, Serrano ham or cold cuts to the ricotta mixture for a hearty meal! 

Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE

CALZONE 	 
DOUGH: 
Soften together 1 1/2 teaspoon yeast, 1 tablespoon honey and 1 cup water, at wrist temperature. Add 1 1/2 teaspoon salt and 2 1/2 to 3 cups flour (mixed whole wheat and white or white only). Knead 10-15 minutes. Cover and set in warm place to rise until doubled, 1 hour.
Prepare filling while dough rises. Punch down. Divide into 6 sections and roll out in rounds 1/4 inch thick. Fill with 1/2 to 3/4 cup of filling, placing filling on 1/2 of the circle, leaving a 1/2 inch rim. Moisten the rim with water, fold the empty side over and crimp edge with fork. Prick it here and there. 

Bake on oiled tray in preheated 450 degree oven for 15-20 minutes or until crisp and lightly browned. You may brush each pastry with butter as it emerges from oven or serve with your favorite tomato sauce recipe. 

FILLING: 
1 lb. ricotta cheese 
2 cloves crushed garlic 
1/2 c. minced onion 
1 lb. fresh spinach 
2 c. grated Mozzarella 
Salt and pepper 
1/2 c. grated Parmesan 
Dash of nutmeg 
2 tbsp. butter 



START RECIPE
ALMOND COOKIES (DUTCH)	  
1/2 cup butter 
1/2 cup shortening 
1/2 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 cup brown sugar 
2 eggs 
3 cups flour 
1/2 tsp. cinnamon 
1/2 tsp. nutmeg 
1/2 tsp. baking soda 
1/2 cup blanched almonds, sliced 
Cream 1/2 cup butter and 1/2 cup shortening, add 1/2 cup granulated sugar and 1/2 cup brown sugar, and cream mixture well. 
Add 2 well-beaten eggs. Sift 3 cups flour, add 1/2 tsp. cinnamon, 1/2 tsp. nutmeg, 1/2 tsp. baking soda. 

Sift again and add to first mixture. Add 1/2 cup sliced blanched almonds. 

Mold into a loaf in small pan lined with wax or parchment paper, cover and refrigerate overnight. 

Slice thinly and bake 10-15 minutes at 375°F. 

Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE

OATMEAL RAISIN COOKIES  
1/2 cup vegetable oil 
3/4 cup light brown sugar 
1/4 cup granulated sugar 
2 eggs 
1/2 cup water 
2 cups unbleached flour 
1 cup raisins (any kind) 
1 tsp. vanilla 
1 tsp. baking soda 
1/2 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
1/2 tsp. freshly grated nutmeg 
2 cups quick-cooking oats 
Preheat oven to 350°F. 
In a saucepan, combine water and raisins, then heat until the water begins to boil, turn off heat and cool. Stir in vanilla. 

In a large bowl, mix oil, sugar and eggs. Beat well. 

Add raisins and all liquid to mixture. Stir in dry ingredients. 

Beat well and stir in oats. 

Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls onto greased cookie sheets. 

Bake for 10-12 minutes or until lightly golden brown. 

Yield: Approximately 4 dozen cookies 

Submitted by: CM 



START RECIPE
BANANA OATMEAL COOKIES	  
3/4 cup oatmeal 
3/4 cup sugar 
1/4 cup milk 
1/2 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
1/2 cup nuts or raisins 
3/4 cup vegetable oil 
1 egg 
1 tsp. baking soda 
1 tsp. nutmeg 
2 small very ripe bananas 
1 1/2 cups flour 
Preheat oven to 350°F. 
Combine ingredients in order listed. Drop by the tablespoonfuls onto a greased cookie sheet. 

Bake 10-15 minutes (depending upon size of cookies).  carefully and do not overbake. 
Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE

CHRISTMAS COOKIES (GERMAN) 	 
8 eggs 
4 cups sugar 
4 oz. chopped citron 
4 oz. blanched almonds 
grated rind of 2 lemons 
9 cups flour 
1/2 tsp. ground cloves 
2 tsp. nutmeg 
1/4 tsp. black pepper 
Beat 8 eggs. Add 4 cups sugar, beat until smooth, about 15 minutes. Add 4 ounces chopped citron, 4 ounces blanched almonds, (which have been coarsely chopped) and the grated rind of 2 lemons. 
Sift together 9 cups flour, add 1/2 tsp. ground cloves, 2 tsp. nutmeg, and 1/4 tsp. black pepper to flour and sift again. Add to the first mixture. 

Roll out dough 3/4 inch thick. Cut into small rounds 1-inch in diameter. 

Before baking, turn each cookie upside down, put a drop of water on each and bake at 350°F. for 15 minutes. 


START RECIPE

RAISIN COOKIES	  
1 cup butter 
2 1/2 cups sugar 
3 eggs 
1 tsp. vanilla 
1/2 tsp. nutmeg 
1 1/2 tsp. baking soda 
1/4 cup hot water 
1/2 lb. raisins 
3 1/2 cups flour 
In a food processor or food chopper, grind raisins until fine. 
Then mix the remaining ingredients in the order given. 

Drop by the teaspoonful onto a parchment lined or silicone baking sheet, leaving 2 inches of space between each to allow the cookies to spread into large flat cookies. 

Bake in a preheated 350°F oven for 12-15 minutes 


START RECIPE
WELSH COOKIES	  
5 cups flour 
2 cups sugar 
3 eggs 
3/4 cup milk 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 cup shortening 
1 cup lard (or butter) 
1 box currants 
This is an old and unique recipe: these cookies are baked on a griddle or in a well-seasoned heavy cast iron pan. The original recipe called for lard, but butter may be substituted: in some areas non-hydrogenated lard may be found if your goal is to remain true to tradition. 
Sift together dry ingredients. Cream together lard (or butter), shortening (we used butter flavored Crisco) and sugar. 

Stir in eggs. Add dry ingredients alternately with milk. Add currants. For extra flavor or variation, 2 teaspoons of vanilla may be added: cinnamon may be substituted for nutmeg, if desired, since nutmeg is an acquired taste. 

Roll dough out on a lightly floured work surface and cut with cookie cutters into desired shapes. 

Bake on hot griddle or pan over medium high heat until cooked through, adjusting heat as necessary. 

Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE
TENNESSEE BOURBON COOKIES 	 
1/2 cup sugar 
1 1/4 cup flour, sifted 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) butter 
2 eggs 
4 oz. pecan pieces 
6 oz. white or golden raisins 
1/4 cup Jim Beam bourbon 
1 tsp. ground cinnamon 
1 tsp. ground nutmeg 
1-1/2 tsp. baking powder 
1/8 tsp. salt 
confectioners' sugar 
Sift the flour and mix with nuts and raisins. Mix in the cinnamon, nutmeg, salt, and baking powder. Cream sugar and butter until light and fluffy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Alternately add bourbon and the flour mixture. 
Chill the batter for one hour and then roll it into 1 1/4-inch diameter logs in waxed paper. Chill 4 hours. Slice into 1/2-inch thick disks and place 1-inch apart on a baking sheet. 

Bake 8 minutes in a preheated 350°F oven. Cool and sprinkle with confectioners sugar. 


START RECIPE
PUMPKIN NUT COOKIES 	 
1/2 cup butter or shortening 
1 cup sugar 
2 eggs, beaten 
1 cup pumpkin 
2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 
4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 
2 1/2 teaspoons cinnamo n
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 
1/4 teaspoon ginger 
1 cup raisins 
1 cup chopped nuts 
Cream shortening: add sugar gradually. Cream until light and fluffy. Add eggs and pumpkin: mix well. Sift flour, baking powder, salt and spices together. Stir in dry ingredients and mix until blended. Add raisins and nuts. Drop by teaspoonfuls on greased cookie sheets. 
Bake in a preheated 350°F oven for approximately 15 minutes or until cookies are golden on edges and set in center. Be careful not to overbake! 

Makes 4 dozen cookies. 

Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE
CHRISTMAS FRUITCAKE COOKIES 	 
1 cup butter, softened 
1 1/2 cups sugar 
3 eggs, separated 
3 cups flour, divided 
1/2 lb candied cherries, finely chopped 
1/2 lb candied pineapples, finely chopped 
1/2 lb golden raisins 
1 quart shelled pecans, finely chopped 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons dark rum 
1 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in hot water 
In the bowl of an electric mixer, cream together butter and sugar: beat in egg yolks. 
Sprinkle the rum over the fruits. Chopping the fruits and nuts is made easier with a food processor, or simply mound them together and sprinkle with a little of the flour to make chopping easier. 

Stir the remaining flour together with the spices and salt to mix evenly. Then add remaining ingredients (except for the egg whites). 

Beat the egg whites until stiff and fold into the batter. Drop by small teaspoonfuls onto a cookie sheet brushed with Crisco or vegetable oil. 

Bake at 350°F for 10-15 minutes. 

This batter may be made up in advance and frozen up to two months in advance. Cookies may be frozen. 

Submitted by: CM 


START RECIPE


Buffalo Style Hot Wings with Blue Cheese Dipping Sauce 
The Cajun and I are kinda tiring of all the holiday leftovers now, so most everything went into the freezer today and I decided to make some hot wings to go along with the football in' since we only really wanted a snack. Now, I have never been to Buffalo, so I won't even begin to pretend that these are authentic Buffalo Wings, but let's just safely say they are chicken wings done Buffalo style. 

Some folks like to flour and season their wings before they fry them. Or, they bake them in the oven and don't fry them at all. Or they may even use chicken breast tenders instead of wings. Me, I like the regular ole buffalo wings, bones and all, naked, no flour, deep fried first, then seasoned, and last, but certainly not least, loaded down with lots of butter and hot sauce. Lots of hot sauce for me! 

These are perfect for any kind of gathering but are a most excellent finger food for parties and especially for ing football! Adjust the hot sauce to your heat preference. Here I use one cup and that's pretty spicy and plenty hot for me. 

I usually buy the 4.5 pound package of whole, fresh chicken wings because they are cheaper, fresher and meatier than the flash frozen ones, though either will work. What I usually do is cut off the tips (that's the easiest step) all at once, but at the same time I cut a slit down into the joint between the wing section and the drummette section. So, cut off the tip, make a slit: next wing, cut off the next tip, make a slit: repeat. Don't cut through, just sort of make a mark. 

Then once I have done the tips on all of the wings, I set the knife down and go back and crack the joints on all of them before I attempt to cut through the joints. Just bend them in the opposite direction and you'll hear them pop. Once I crack all the joints apart, then I wash my hands so that I can get a good grip on the knife. This way my knife hand is all clean and I can go through each wing and do the actual cutting through part. Some of them can still be buggers, but to me this is the safest way to do it. Reserve the tips in the freezer for the next time you make stock for a soup or chicken and dumplings. 

Here's how to make them. 

516Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 
Recipe: Buffalo Style Hot Wings with Blue Cheese Dipping Sauce 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 45 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 

For the Dipping Sauce: 
1 cup sour cream 
1/4 cup heavy cream 
1/4 cup of mayonnaise 
4 ounces blue cheese, more or less, to taste 
Dash hot sauce 
Dash Worcestershire sauce 
Pinch of Kosher salt 
For the Wings: 
1/2 cup (1 stick) of butter 
1 cup of hot sauce, adjust up or down according to desired heat level 
4 to 5 pound package of whole chicken wingshttps 
Salt and pepperhttps 
Instructions 

Preheat fryer to 375 degrees F. Process the sour cream, heavy cream, mayonnaise, blue cheese, hot sauce, Worcestershire and salt by pulsing together in a food processor until as smooth as you like it. Cover and refrigerate. Can also just mix together if you prefer an extra chunky texture. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove from heat and stir in the hot sauce. Set aside to cool. 

Remove the wing tips from the chicken wings and set the tips aside for the freezer to use later. Cut the wings in half at the joint. Once you have all the wings sectioned, fry them in batches in the hot oil until golden brown and crisp, about 8 to 10 minutes. I generally do the 4.5 pounds in 3 batches. As they finish, remove them to a paper towel lined tray or plate and sprinkle with salt and pepper right away. Transfer the wings to large covered storage container, pour the hot sauce butter mixture over the top, close and shake well. I also do this as each batch comes out of the fryer. 

For a party, arrange curly leaf lettuce pieces around a platter with the stems facing in, and place a small container of dipping sauce in the center. Arrange celery sticks, green onion strips and carrot sticks in sections around the platter and fill in the empty spots with the hot wings. 

Variation: Whisk in half an envelope of dry Italian dressing and salad mix with the butter and hot sauce mixture before pouring over the wings. 


START RECIPE

Oven Braised Pot Roast with Vegetables 
This oven braised chuck roast rocks. That's it. I seriously could just end the post there to be honest. It is just simply the best roast you could ever possibly want to eat. For real y'all! 

Essentially my Old Fashioned Pot Roast, except revised a tad for the oven, and adding in the classic two pot roast veggies, potatoes and carrots. I decided to call it a Sunday Oven Braised Pot Roast because it reminded me of just that. The kind of roasts our mama's and grandma's would sear off and then stick into a low oven to cook nice and slow while we all headed off out the door to church. 

I know that just brings back wonderful memories for many of us, coming home to that welcoming aroma and gathering around the family dinner table shortly after every Sunday. There was a time when we were expected by our Mamas to be at that dinner table every single Sunday, at a certain time, without exception. I truly do hope this tradition sees a revival because frankly, I think we all need that reconnection with one another in the world of technology we live in now. Family dinner around the table - what a concept! 

My meat and potatoes lovin' Cajun literally raved over this roast folks - even the leftovers. It really is that good.  

Let's start. Once again we practice my motto for Deep South Cooking - building layers of flavor !

First preheat your oven to 275 degree F. If ya like, stud the roast all over with slivers of garlic, by making small slits all over the meat and inserting the garlic into the slits. Next, we'll mix up a flour and seasoning blend that is rubbed all over the roast. Sear it off in oil a hot Dutch oven until it's nice and browned on all sides. Remove the roast and set it aside. 



 Then we'll add flour to the pan drippings and make a roux. Not too dark, just sort of muddy looking. 



To that we'll add in the chopped onion and cook until softened before stirring in some beef stock and herbs.  



Cook that until it's thickened, then return the seared roast to the pot.  



Spoon some of the gravy over the top, cover and place into a preheated 275 degree F oven. If you're home, every once in awhile, remove the pot from the oven and spoon more gravy over the roast. If you're off at church, well, don't worry about it! It'll pretty much just baste itself really. 



After 2 hours of cooking, or when you get home, cut up and add the chunks of carrots and baste the roast. If you're in a hurry, cut the carrots and potatoes smaller to make them cook faster, but waiting to add them later gives the roast plenty of time to low simmer on its own, and you won't end up with mushy carrots. 



After that cut up some potatoes, add those in, baste the roast and let it go another hour if you have the time, or until the potatoes are tender. 



Turn off the oven, remove the roast to a large platter and scoop out the veggies and place them on the side of the platter. Tent the platter loosely with a piece of aluminum foil and set it in the oven to keep warm.  Skim off the visible fat from the gravy, or use a gravy skimmer. Use the gravy as is, or bring it to a boil on the stove top, reduce heat and simmer until reduced and thickened. 




4K+ 
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 
Recipe: Sunday Oven Braised Pot Roast with Vegetables 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 25 min |Cook time: 4 hours |	Yield: About 6 to 8 servings 

Ingredients 
3 to 5 pound boneless chuck roast 
Several garlic cloves, cut into slivers, optional 
2 tablespoons of bacon fat, Crisco shortening, or vegetable or canola oil 
Heaping 1/4 cup of all purpose flour 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 
1 teaspoon of Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama), or to taste 
1/2 teaspoon onion powder 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/4 cup of vegetable or canola oil 
1/2 cup of all purpose flour 
1 cup of chopped onion 
3 cups of beef stock or broth, warmed 
1 teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed 
1 teaspoon dried thyme, crushed 
1 teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce 
1 large bay leaf 
3 large carrots, peeled and cut into quarters 
2 large baking potatoes, peeled and cut into chunks 
Instructions 

Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Stud the roast by using the tip of a knife to cut multiple small slits in areas all over the meat and inserting slivers of garlic into each cut, if desired. In a small bowl, stir together flour, salt, pepper, Cajun seasoning, onion powder and garlic powder with a fork. Sprinkle half of the flour mixture onto a plate or pan, place roast on top of flour mix and sprinkle remaining flour mix over the top of roast. Rub mixture into the roast, turning until thoroughly covered, including sides. Let rest for 15 minutes while the oven preheats. 

Heat 2 tablespoons of fat in a Dutch oven over medium high heat.  Using tongs, carefully place the roast into the hot oil and sear it on all sides. Remove roast and set aside.  Add more fat or oil as needed to equal 1/4 cup. Sprinkle in the flour and cook, stirring constantly, until mixture reaches the color of mud, about 5-7 minutes. Stir in the chopped onion and cook about 3 minutes. Stir in the warm beef broth, rosemary, thyme, Worcestershire and bay leaf.  Place roast into the gravy, spoon some of the gravy on top, cover and cook at 275 degrees F for two hours, basting occasionally. 

Remove from the oven, baste the meat, and add the carrots along the sides of the roast. Cover and return to the oven for one hour. Remove, baste and add the potatoes: cover and cook for about another hour or until potatoes are tender. Can serve with gravy as is, or remove the fat if desired. Turn the oven off, carefully transfer the roast and vegetables to a platter - the roast will be very tender so use a wide spatula underneath the meat to lift and transfer it. Tent the platter loosely with foil and place into the oven to keep warm and let rest. Skim off visible fat, or use a gravy skimmer to remove fat. Bring the gravy to a boil on the top of the stove, reduce heat and simmer until gravy is reduced slightly and thickened enough to coat the back of a spoon. Transfer to a platter, surround by vegetables and spoon gravy over top, or over individual servings: serve remaining gravy at the table. 

Cook's Notes: Can use other braising roasts also. Some good roasts include rump, 7-bone, eye round, bottom round, blade, cross rib, arm, shoulder roast, top and under blade pot roasts. 

Serving Suggestion: Serve with rice or mashed potatoes, a green vegetable and French bread or rolls. 



START RECIPE


Steak and Gravy with Onion 
The first cookbook I ever received, was the 1973 red, ring-bound Betty Crocker's Cookbook, given to me by my mama. I still have it. Anybody else? 



Round steak and gravy is one of the first dishes that I learned to cook from Betty Crocker as a young bride, what seems now 100 years ago, though the dish has gone through a bit of transition since back then. In fact, I'd say that the School of Betty Crocker was the beginning of my book learnin' culinary education! 

As a young couple, we were pretty much dirt poor back in those days - I can't recall how long we used lawn furniture in our living room before we got an actual couch, chair and recliner - but I can tell you, it was awhile. Course, at that age, didn't matter much to us! Our first purchase as a young married couple was not furniture, but a Curtis Mathis console television that we bought on time and let me tell you, we were big time to own one of those. Funny thing though... we managed just fine to be happy without a lot of material trappings back then. Boy have times changed for couples now - they go into a marriage with student loans, a big mortgage and notes for new cars and furniture. It wears me out just thinking about it. 

Anyway... round steak was far less expensive than a prime cut of beef back then so this dish quickly became a favorite. I don't know why I don't make it more often these days, because its easy, filling and tasty, and the meat and potatoes eatin' Cajun loves it. It definitely isn't so cheap anymore though! 

Not much to the prep work with this really, and it works just as well in the crockpot as it does on top of the stove, so it's perfect for this time of year when time is short and the holidays are approaching. 

You start by caramelizing some onion - add in a bit of garlic too if you like: remove the onions from the pan and set aside. 



Season and pound the meat on both sides to tenderize it. I use a blade tenderizer - sure is easier than Mama's old meat mallet, which I actually do still own. If you've got some anger and resentments to work out, the mallet might be helpful. Once tenderized, cut the meat into serving sized pieces. 



Dredge in flour and brown in oil 



Remove the meat and deglaze the pan with a little bit of water. 



You're deglazing because we want to scrape up the fond - all of those brown yum-yums that happen in the bottom of the pan from browning the meat. That's flavor y'all! Mix the soup, water, crushed dried thyme, and a bit of Kitchen Bouquet together, pour half of that into the pan and stir to combine. 



Add the meat to the skillet turning it to coat both sides.   Add the caramelized onions on top of the meat. 



Pour the other half of the soup mix on top, cover and simmer about 2 hours, or until meat is very tender. If you're doing this in the crockpot, you'll simply transfer all of this to the cooker. 


I almost always serve this with homemade mashed potatoes and my quick fix sweet peas or southern style green beans made with onion and bacon - one man pleasin' meal around my house for sure! 



Be careful when you pick up round steak for this recipe because very often the package will be marked simply as round steak, when it is actually top round, the leaner and more costly part of the round and not really appropriate for this recipe. 

A telltale sign is if the meat is already in serving size pieces, rather than the larger steak as pictured above. This recipe is more suited for a braising steak, the cheapest cut - or what is known as bottom round. After long stewing, whether stovetop or crockpot, the result will be fall apart tender and delicious. 

For more of my favorite recipes using round steak, visit my page on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Beef, Cube & Round Steak 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 



7K+Save 

share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Round Steak and Gravy with Onion 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 20 min |Cook time: 2 hours |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
3 tablespoons of cooking oil (canola, vegetable) 
1 onion, sliced (about 3 cups) 
1 clove of garlic, minced 
3 pounds beef bottom round steak, or other braising steak 
Kosher salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
1/2 cup of all purpose flour 
About 1/4 cup of water for deglazing 
1 can cream of mushroom soup 
1 soup can of water 
1/4 teaspoon of dried thyme, crushed 
1 teaspoon of Kitchen Bouquet 
Instructions 

Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions have caramelized, about 12 to 15 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for about a minute. Remove onion and garlic from pan and set aside. 

Meanwhile, season the meat lightly on both sides with salt and pepper and pound with a meat mallet to tenderize. Cut into 6 to 8 serving sized pieces, and dredge in the flour, shaking off any excess. Heat another tablespoon of oil in the same skillet you cooked the onion in over medium heat, and brown the steak on both sides in batches, setting the pieces aside as you brown them and adding additional oil as needed. 

Deglaze the pan by adding in about 1/4 cup of water to the empty skillet, simmering and scraping up all of the browned bits from the bottom of the skillet. Meanwhile combine the cream of mushroom soup, water, thyme and Kitchen Bouquet in a small bowl. Add half of the soup mixture to the pan juices and stir until blended. Return the meat to the skillet, turning to coat each piece and top with the caramelized onions. Pour the remaining soup mix over the top, cover, reduce heat and low simmer, stirring and turning occasionally, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours, or until meat is very tender. 

Transfer meat to a platter or on individual plates and pour the gravy over the meat. Serve with homemade mashed potatoes or rice and a green salad or vegetable, like southern style green beans with bacon and onion.  

Crockpot: Prepare as above, except, place 1/3 of soup mixture in bottom of slow cooker. Top with half of the browned steaks, half of the onions, another 1/3 of the soup mixture, layer in remaining steaks, onions, deglazed pan drippings and last of the soup mixture. Cook on low for 6 to 8 hours, or until meat is fork tender. 

Note: Braising steaks are best for this dish. Braising is not recommended for top round (which is often just marked as round,), so use an eye or bottom round steak for this dish. Good braising steaks include chuck eye, chuck arm, chuck 7-bone steak, mock tender, chuck tender steak and flat iron.  

Variations: Substitute cube steak for the round steak. May also add in about 2 cups of sliced mushrooms. 



START RECIPE


Spicy Sugar Steaks 
You don't see much on this site about steaks and it's not because we don't eat them - we certainly do. It's because my favorite steak, hands down, is a rib-eye, and to me they just don't need anything much. A quick dousing of Dale's, Country Bob's, or just plain ole Worcestershire sauce while it comes to room temperature for the grill, and that's about all I ever do most of the time. I don't even add salt or pepper to them, before or after, and no steak sauce or enhancements for this gal. 

But my Sugar Steak is one exception. 

I adore this rub and so does The Cajun. And while I know it seems odd to put sugar on a steak, trust me - it is some kind of good. I'm sure lots of you have heard of pork rib rubs with brown sugar, and a few of you might have seen sugar grilled steaks from people like Steven Raichlen, or maybe you've seen the mixes in the stores, but the truth is sugar steaks have been around for a long time, and even if you're pretty much a steak purist like me, I think you'll enjoy this for a change of pace. 

A pretty good general purpose rub for burgers, chicken and pork chops too by the way, this has a nice Cajun bite to it, but if you prefer things a bit more on the milder side, you can eliminate the Cajun seasoning, and use regular chili powder instead of chipotle. 

And yes, I know... there are no pretty crosshatch markings on my steak - though knowing I was going to photograph these for the blog I truly had intended to do that, and well, between having to add a new tank midstream and trying to grill between the thunderstorms, frankly, I didn't think about it. Seeing as I'm not in any way, shape or form a BBQ (as in slow smoke cooking and not the sauce) aficionado, honestly, I don't really worry about that all that much either. Eh, maybe next time - but don't count on it. 



For more of my favorite rubs, condiments, sauces and marinades, visit my page on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Sauces, Condiments, Rubs & Marinades 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


13K+Save 
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+  

Recipe: Spicy Sugar Steaks 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Inactive time: 2 hours |	Yield: About 3/4 cup 

Ingredients 
4 (3/4 thick) beef steaks (NY Strip, T-Bone, Rib-eye) 
1/2 cup of dark brown sugar, packed 
1 tablespoon of paprika 
1 tablespoon of chipotle chili powder 
1 tablespoon of kosher salt 
1/2 tablespoon of fresh cracked black pepper 
1 tablespoon of Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama), or to taste 
1 tablespoon garlic powder 
1 tablespoon of onion powder 
Instructions 

Place the steaks on a glass plate or platter. Combine all of the remaining ingredients and mix with a fork until well combined. Apply half of the rub mixture on one side of the steak. Turn and apply the remaining rub on the other side, applying some to the sides of the steak. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate several hours or overnight. 

Remove steaks and bring to room temperature, about 30 minutes. Grill or pan fry as usual - let rest 5 minutes before serving. 

Cook's Note: This is a great all purpose rub. I've had several readers tell me that they've used it on all kinds of foods - ribs, chicken, pork chops, brisket, even shrimp. 


START RECIPE


Creole Daube and Spaghetti 
Daube, pronounced dohb, in its French origins, is simply put, a stew of braised beef. In years past, it was a popular dish amongst the population along the Point Cadet area of Biloxi where my family is from, but I'm afraid that it has gone the wayside with the younger generations, and even those of us in the not-so-young-generation. Too bad, because it is both delicious and definitely not difficult at all to do. While it does take a long, slow cooking period of several hours, you don't really have to tend to it much at all during that time. This meal is also a great budget stretcher as it goes a long way and can feed a nice big family. I can just imagine my MoMo (my mother's mother) serving up a big ole pot of this spaghetti to my Poppy and all those kids of theirs! 

My Spaghetti Daube is made from cheap chuck or rump roast (whatever is on sale), and stewed down in a Creole Gravy - a tomato sauce seasoned with The Trinity and a pince of tomato paste browned right in for extra richness. Other herbs and seasonings are added, including just a bit of freshly grated nutmeg. Cooked low and slow, it produces a wonderfully flavorful and tender meat that is then shredded and returned to the gravy. This is served over spaghetti noodles traditionally, though you can use other larger pastas such as rigatoni. I add in a bit of beef broth with my Spaghetti Daube, but if you prefer, red wine can be substituted. 

When you remove the meat from the gravy to slice it, you can also set aside a few slices for Daube Glace if you like. This daube, encased in a beefy gelatin, is served cold, very often as an appetizer for the Reveillon Feast breaking the fast after midnight mass on Christmas Eve, though that, my friends, is a whole 'nother post! This Creole gravy also works well with a whole chicken. 

As in many of our coastal south dishes, we start this one with the familiar Trinity.  Cook that down in some canola until the veggies are nice and tender. 



I forgot to photograph the browning of the tomato paste - a pince - but once that is done and cooked for about 5 minutes, you'll add in the tomatoes, tomato sauce and sugar and let that simmer for about 20 minutes.  Add in the seasonings - salt, pepper, Cajun seasoning, Italian seasoning, parsley and bay leaf.  



A little grating of nutmeg and stir in the beef broth and Worcestershire. Bring all that to a boil. 



Cut the roast in half and toss it in, reduce the heat and let it simmer for 2 to 3 hours or until tender. Once it is tender, remove and slice. If you want to make a small Daube Glacee for your family, set aside a couple of these slices. 



Using a couple of forks, shred up the meat. 



Return the shredded meat to the Creole gravy and let it low simmer for another 15 minutes, or just hold the daube on low until you're ready for it. Cook the spaghetti noodles and toss with a couple of ladles of the sauce.  



Plate the spaghetti noodles and top with the daube. Sprinkle with a bit of Parmesan if you like. Enjoy! 



For more of my favorite beef roast recipes, visit my page on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Beef, Roast 
Follow On  
 

If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


3K+Save 

share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Creole Daube and Spaghetti 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 15 min |Inactive time: 2-3 hours |	Yield: About 6 to 8 servings 

Ingredients 
3 to 5 pound beef chuck or rump roast 
2-3 tablespoons of vegetable or canola oil 
2 large onions, chopped 
2 stalks of celery, chopped 
1 large green bell pepper, chopped 
4 cloves of garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons of tomato paste 
2 (28 ounce) cans of whole tomatoes 
1 (8 ounce) can of tomato sauce 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1/2 cup of beef broth (or red wine) 
Splash of Worcestershire sauce 
1 teaspoon of salt 
1/4 teaspoon of freshly cracked black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon of Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama), or to taste, optional 
1 teaspoon of Italian seasoning 
1/2 tablespoon of dried parsley 
1 large bay leaf 
Grated nutmeg 
Cooked spaghetti noodles 
Shredded Parmesan cheese, optional 
Instructions 

Set roast aside to come to room temperature.  

Pour enough canola oil into the bottom of a heavy, stainless stockpot and heat to medium high. Add onion, celery and bell pepper and cook until softened, but not brown. Add the garlic and cook another minute. Stir in the tomato paste and cook and stir for about 5 minutes. Using a pair of kitchen shears, coarsely cut up both cans of the whole tomatoes right in the can: add to pot. Add the tomato sauce and sugar. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer for 20 minutes.  

Add the salt, pepper, Cajun seasoning, Italian seasoning, parsley, and bay leaf. Pass a whole nutmeg over a microplane 3 or 4 times and stir in the beef broth and Worcestershire: bring up to a boil. Cut the roast in half, add it to the pot, cover, reduce heat to a low simmer, and cook for 2 to 3 hours or until beef is tender. Don't allow the meat to boil! Keep it at a very low simmer. 

Remove the beef from the pot, slice into 1/2 inch slices (if you are making Daube Glace, reserve some of these whole slices) and then shred pieces with a fork, add the shredded beef back to the tomato gravy. Let it continue to low simmer, covered, another 15 minutes, or just hold the pot on very low until you are ready to serve. You can also leave it as whole slices if you prefer, returning the slices to the gravy to simmer a bit, and then serving the slices on top of the spaghetti noodles, with a bit of sauce spooned over the top. 

Boil the spaghetti noodles according to package directions: drain well. Return noodles to pot and add a couple of scoops of the tomato gravy, stirring to coat all of the noodles. Turn the noodles out onto a large platter and pour sauce over the top, or plate noodles individually and add a couple of hearty scoops of the meat and sauce. 

Serve with Parmesan cheese at the table for sprinkling on top. Add a mixed garden salad on the side and a nice chunk of hot, buttered French bread. 

Tip: If you'd ever had the occasion to end up with watery spaghetti on your plate, the culprit is likely the wet pasta. Don't rinse the pasta, make sure you give it time to drain really well, and wait until pasta is dry and stops steaming. That steam can create condensation and thus water when plated. Also, you can transfer the pasta back to the hot, but empty, cooking pot and place it back over the turned off burner. The residual heat from the burner and the pot will help to dry the water out of the pasta. 

For the Crockpot: Place everything (except the pasta and cheese) into the crockpot and cook on low for about 6 hours or until the roast is falling apart tender. Remove, shred and serve over pasta. 



START RECIPE


Roast Beef Po'Boy with Debris Gravy 
Po'boys are the mysterious sandwich of the South for sure. Over here in Mississippi we make ours just a tad bit different than our sister state, Louisiana. We have this whole dressed and pressed thing we like over this way. You can read more about what exactly a po'boy is, along with a mild southern style hissy fit about what a po'boy is not, right here. I won't rehash all that here.  

I recently had a Twitter request for how to make a Mississippi roast beef po'boy start to finish. Besides the general post about what a po'boy is, I have posted how to construct an oyster po'boy, and also an old Mary Mahoney's favorite of mine, a Denver po'boy. I have a shrimp po'boy, built in the same manner as the oyster, except that the shrimp are cooked with this dredge when I make those. 

Truth is though, roast beef is the original and still the King of Po'boys, and has been on my list of things to document, and I finally got around to it ... so Osmar from Brazil, this is for you! It may not be identical, but I hope that it at least reminds you of the ones you had at Pirate's Cove in Long Beach, Mississippi. 

Two things, first thing. Be prepared for a lot of finger licking and a drippy mess, so keep lots of napkins handy. My Mama used to say if it ain't messy, it ain't good, and a good roast beef po'boy with gravy is a lovely kind of messy. Second - do not skip a single step in this process or the end result will not be the same. No skipping steps or ingredients. No substituting. 

To make 4 half po'boys, or 2 big ole po'boys for some hungry folk, you'll need two large loaves of French bread and a 2 to 3 pound eye of round roast. If you need more, just increase the amounts as needed, or make smaller po'boys if you're feeding kids, or, say... making them for a party!  

I prefer the eye of round because rather than shredding, it slices well, and slices nice and thin also. You may have seen the cheater pulled pork that I boil - I know. Don't freak out! I do this roast for po'boys the same way, after seeing a segment on Diners, Drive-ins and Dives featuring Parasols, a New Orleans restaurant famous for it's roast beef po'boys. 

I wouldn't have believed that Parasol's boiled their beef first, until I tried it for myself, but I like it much better this way now. It does actually go into the oven after the boil, in a nice, hot tub of yummy gravy where it gets more tender, and infused with wonderful flavor, so don't be scared by it's paleness when it comes out of the boiling water - just have faith and hang in there. If it's good enough for Parasols, it's good enough for us. You can also do this with deli roast beef, but make sure you get a good one, like Angus. 

Put the roast in a large pot and cover it with water, plus about one inch over that. Then remove the roast and bring the pot of water to a full, rolling boil on its own. Once the water is boiling, carefully return the roast to the water. When the water comes back to a boil, reduce the heat to a low simmer and let it simmer for about 1-1/2 hours. Don't let it boil. 



Remove the roast from the water and set it aside to cool slightly, transfer it into a container to refrigerate and cool completely. Reserve all of the cooking water. Mix together the gravy seasoning - flour, Cajun seasoning, onion salt, garlic powder, salt and pepper. Looks a bit plain and dull doesn't it? Well, don't be deceived!  



Add to that the canola oil and Kitchen Bouquet, and mix until it forms a thick paste. Kitchen Bouquet is a browning and seasoning sauce used to add richness to meats, gravies, and stews. The ingredients include caramel coloring, and a mixed vegetable stock, including carrots, onions, celery, parsnips, turnips, salt, and parsley. Use of it enables you to skip the roux browning process because it adds the color and flavor. I've also used Gravy Master, which was introduced to me by one of our readers here. I had to order it on Amazon, because I've never seen it around here, but it's somewhat similar to Kitchen Bouquet in what it does and is also very good. 



If Kitchen Bouquet is not available where you live, you will need to make a browned roux with the flour instead. To make a roux, warm the oil over medium to medium high heat, then add the flour and cook and stir until mixture darkens. You can also make a roux using a microwave or in the oven. Stir in the seasonings, and proceed. For more about making a browned roux for gravy, click right here. You can use this method to make your gravy instead if you prefer. 



Transfer 4 cups of the meat broth to a large saucepan and bring it to a full boil: reserve the remaining broth. Quickly whisk in the gravy base, until fully incorporated and mixture is bubbly and thickened. 



Toss in a couple sprigs of thyme, reduce heat to a low simmer and let cook for 30 minutes, whisking occasionally. 



Pull the roast out of the fridge and slice it very, very thin. Yes, yes... it looks pale and pitiful doesn't it? Just wait. 



Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Set aside a cup of the gravy for later. Grab a 9 x 9 inch baking pan and add a layer of meat to the pan. Top the meat in the baking pan with a ladle or two full of the gravy. 



Add another layer of meat and repeat with the gravy. 



Continue layering until all of the meat and remaining gravy (except for what you set aside) has been put into the pan. Cover the pan with aluminum foil and place into the heated oven for about one hour, turning the meat occasionally. 



There are several varieties of French bread available and any one of them is fine. Leidenheimer’s is more traditional, and while widely available here on the Gulf Coast, Rouse's Market also makes a mighty fine French bread that I really love. To be honest, we grab the French bread from WalMart's deli quite often too. You want French bread, a bread that has a nice crisp crust, but a fluffy, soft and tender (not dense) inside. 



I like to toast the bread in a hot cast iron skillet first, and then spread mayonnaise on both sides of the inside of the bread. 



Pile some of the roast beef on the bottom half of the French bread. Top with sliced tomatoes and just a bit of kosher salt and fresh cracked black pepper. 



Top with pickles, if desired. I sometimes add pickles, sometimes I don't. Right now I am totally addicted to these Wickles pickles. They are a little pricey but oh my gosh are they good on a roast beef po'boy! So add them if you like them, or not. Top that with shredded lettuce. 



Close the top and put the entire po'boy back into the hot skillet and using a large spatula, gently push the po'boy into the skillet to press it. You can also top the po'boy with another skillet, or use a sandwich press, just take care that you are not squishing out all of the insides of your po'boy though. I don't press my roast beef po'boy as much as I would say a shrimp, ham and cheese, or crabmeat po'boy, due to the gravy. Turn the po'boy over and repeat. I forgot to get a pic of my dressed and pressed po'boy while I was pressing it in the skillet, so this is The Cajun's po'boy getting pressed in the skillet. He pretty much likes his po'boy with mayo and meat only {boring} but I made him eat a bit of lettuce too because it just looked too naked to me. Once pressed, you can open the sandwich up and add extra gravy to it if you like, and trust me, you will like.  



Grab some Zapps chips and an ice cold Barq's root beer in a bottle if you can find one, though a good, ice cold beer is pretty darned good too. Roll up your sleeves, get the elbows out and up and get ready for some chin wiping and finger licking! 



Here's how to make it. 

For more of my Gulf Coast favorites, visit my page on Pinterest! 
Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Gulf Coast Favorites 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


5K+Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Roast Beef Po'Boy with Debris Gravy 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Inactive/Cook time: 3 hours |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Note: Before you start. Do not skip a single step in this process or the end result will not be the same. No skipping steps, no leaving out ingredients. No substituting, period. If you want the same results you have to follow the directions. 

The Bread: 

Use two large French Bread loaves, either homemade, or locally purchased. Around here, we often use a New Orleans style po'boy bread, like Leidenheimer’s, though a good deli French bread from the grocery store or super center works just fine too. Substitute any long Italian or French bread loaf that is not too dense - you want it light and airy inside. 

Ingredients 

The Roast: 
1 (2-3 pound) beef eye of round roast 
Water to cover, do not discard 
For the Gravy: 
4 cups of the reserved broth from the roast, plus extra as needed 
1/2 cup of all purpose flour 
1/2 teaspoon of Slap Ya Mama, or your favorite, Cajun seasoning 
1/2 teaspoon of onion salt 
1/2 tablespoon of garlic powder 
1 teaspoon of kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon of freshly cracked black pepper, or to taste 
1/4 cup of canola oil 
2 teaspoons of Kitchen Bouquet 
Couple sprigs of fresh thyme 
Building the Po'Boy: 
French Bread 
Mayonnaise 
Sliced Tomato 
Salt and pepper, to taste 
Sliced dill pickles, optional 
Shredded Iceberg lettuce 
Instructions 

For the roast, place meat in a pot or dutch oven and cover it with water, plus about an inch. Remove the roast and set aside. Bring the water up to a full rolling boil on it's own, and then, carefully slide the roast into it. When the water returns to a boil, reduce to a slow simmer and let cook for about 1-1/2 hours. Remove the roast, reserving all of the water from the broth: set aside. Place roast into the refrigerator to chill for easier slicing.  

For the gravy, transfer 4 cups of the stock from the roast into a large saucepan. Bring to a boil. Meanwhile stir together the flour, Cajun seasoning, onion salt, garlic powder, salt and pepper until well blended. Stir in the oil and Kitchen Bouquet to form a thick paste. 

Once the water is at a full rolling boil, quickly whisk in the paste and continue whisking until well incorporated. Reduce heat, add thyme, and low simmer the gravy uncovered, for 30 minutes, adding more of the broth water to reach the desired consistency. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed. 

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. While the gravy is simmering, remove the roast from the refrigerator and slice it into very thin slices. Set aside approximately 1 cup of the gravy. Place one layer of roast beef into a 9 x 9 inch baking dish and top with a scoop of the gravy. Add another layer of roast beef, another scoop of the gravy, and continue layering until all has been put into the pan. Be sure to pan all of the bits and imperfect pieces from cutting (the debris). Cover the dish with aluminum foil and bake at 325 degrees F for about 1 hour, turning occasionally, or until meat is tender. 

To build the po'boy, divide the French bread into halves or the size needed, and slice each piece lengthwise. Try to leave a flat edge hinge intact if possible. It sort of helps to hold everything in. If you cut through or it opens up anyway, no big deal! Heat a large cast iron or skillet, open the bread up and toast each serving on the inside.  

Add mayonnaise to both sides of the inside of the French bread for each serving. Add roast beef to the bottom half of the bread. Top with sliced tomatoes: add salt and pepper. Add pickles, if desired. Top with shredded lettuce, and place other half of the French bread on top. Place back into the skillet, and using a wide spatula, press down while heating. You can also use a press, if you can control the pressure, or you can put a heavy skillet on top. I prefer to just press with a wide spatula so not to squeeze out too much of the gravy! Carefully turn the po'boy over and repeat on the other side, toasting while pressing. 

Transfer the po'boy to a cutting board and slice in half. Open and add some of the reserved gravy if desired. Wrap tightly in several sheets of white butcher paper, and serve with a side of Zapp's potato chips, an ice cold, bottled Barq's root beer and a lot of napkins! Now that's genuine! Course if you don't have access to those two amazing sides, we won't mind at all if you substitute. Barq's in a bottle have gotten kinda hard to come by even here sometimes and we didn't have any Zapp's in the house for this po'boy round. 

Cook's Notes: Shortcut the process by using deli sliced roast beef. Use 4 cups of beef broth to prepare gravy and proceed with the recipe . 

Make it a Party: Use pistolettes to make mini party sized po'boys or packages of small dinner rolls or party rolls to make mini roast beef sandwiches - something like King’s Hawaiian Sweet Rolls would be a good choice. 



START RECIPE

Southern Sweet Potato Bread 
So, the calendar says that we've reached the Autumnal Equinox, meaning summer is now officially over and that it's finally fall. Somebody needs to tell Mama Nature to hurry on up and turn on the air conditioning down in this part of the good ole U.S. of A. because the heat is definitely still on. That's typical though, while a lot of y'all are enjoying nice, crisp seasonal changes, we're still in beach weather for awhile. We're pretty accustomed to it being this way, but at least its a good excuse to start featuring a few fall dishes. 

I developed this bread to bring to a party The Cajun and I were going to, and was really thrilled with the way that it turned out. I knew I wanted it to be a sweet bread but not overly sweet, both because I was using a canned in syrup sweet potato product, but also wanted to add texture with a sweet topping of oatmeal and brown sugar crumble. I also liked the idea of bringing in a citrus element, and decided to use a combination of orange juice, with brown sugar and granulated sugar, to accent the sweet potatoes. It turned out to be a very moist and delicious bread, with what I felt was just the right amount of sweetness. Here's how to make it. 





Serve this up with some of my Whipped Honey Butter with a little cinnamon stirred in. 



Tip: I already have a clever tip on how to keep a variety of juices in the freezer all the time - so be sure to check that out. But there are times you need a little more than a tablespoon or two. For those times, it's handy to keep a container of frozen orange juice concentrate on hand. Fill a measuring cup with water - just slightly under the amount of juice you'll need. Scoop out a tablespoon of the concentrate and blend it into the water, adding additional frozen concentrate until it tastes right! Seal the frozen concentrate back up and return it to the freezer for next time. 


2K+ 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 
Recipe: Southern Sweet Potato Bread 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 1 hour |	Yield: 2 Loaves 

Ingredients 
1 cup of raisins 
1 (29 ounce) can of sweet potatoes in syrup, drained and mashed 
1/2 cup of light brown sugar, packed 
1/2 cup of granulated sugar 
2/3 cup of orange juice 
1 cup of milk 
2 large eggs, beaten 
1/2 cup (1 stick) of butter, melted and cooled 
4 cups of self rising flour 
1 teaspoon of baking soda 
1-1/2 teaspoons of cinnamon 
Grating of nutmeg, to taste 
3/4 cup of chopped pecans 
For the Crumble Topping: 
2 tablespoons of cold butter, cut into small pieces 
3 tablespoons all purpose flour 
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar 
1/4 cup quick cooking oats 
1/4 cup of chopped pecans 
Instructions 

Place raisins into a saucepan and cover with water. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer until plump: drain and set aside. Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Spray two 9 x 5 inch loaf pans with Baker's Joy cooking spray and set aside. 

In a large bowl, mix together the mashed sweet potatoes, brown sugar, granulated sugar, orange juice, milk, eggs and cooled melted butter. Sift the flour, baking soda, cinnamon and grated nutmeg into a bowl, add the nuts and raisins and toss to coat them. Add the dry mixture to the wet, and blend together. Spoon evenly into the two prepared loaf pans.  

For the topping, crumble the butter into the flour, add in the brown sugar, oats and pecans. Sprinkle evenly on top of the batter of both loaves and lightly pat it into the batter. 

Bake at 325 degrees F for about 55 minutes to 1 hour, or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the bread comes out clean. Cool the bread in the pan on a cooling rack for about 15 minutes, then turn out, taking care not to knock off the topping, and allow to cool completely on the rack. Serve with honey butter. Makes 2 loaves 

Cook's Notes: I used White Lily brand flour and Sugary Sam brand of canned cut sweet potatoes in syrup, drained and mashed. For the crumble, I used Coach's Oats brand of quick cooking oatmeal. To make pumpkin bread, substitute two (15 ounce) cans of 100% pure pumpkin like Libby's brand. 


START RECIPE


Beignet Doughnuts 
It's Shrove Monday, or the Monday before Ash Wednesday, now mostly just referred to as Lundi Gras, meaning that Carnival season is winding down and the Lenten season is about to begin. It is the time that certain Christian denominations, in particular Catholic, Episcopal and Lutheran, begin to reflect, prepare for confession, and seek penance to obtain absolution for our sins. It is, in essence, the day before the final blowout - Fat Tuesday. No better appropriate time to bring you my final recipe to add to the Mardi Gras brunch and party foods list for New Orleans Style Café au Lait and French Market Beignets!  

Oh my gosh, the memories associated with beignets for me are many and they are all associated with one place, the Café du Mondé coffee stand, in the Old Jackson Square area of the French Market in downtown New Orleans.  Café du Mondé, established in 1862, is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, except for Christmas (and the occasional hurricane threat) and sells primarily two things - chicory coffee and beignets. Beignets are essentially deep fried, only slightly sweet fritters, that are sprinkled with a generous dousing of powdered sugar and served straight out of the fryer. At the coffee stand they come in orders of three, which is just the right amount. 



Grabbing a plate of these hot beignets and a cup of café au lait after a long night out and about in town - and more specifically, the French Quarter - was just the ticket to wind down the night, and we did it often. Served primarily al fresco, though they do have a teeny, tiny indoor seating area, it didn't matter whether it was 40 degrees outside or 100, 5:00 o'clock at night, or 3:00 o'clock in the morning, I can never remember being there where this place was not busy. It was and remains a tradition when in New Orleans, along with the silly practice of blowing the powdered sugar off onto one another, a practice everyone hates, but which always seems to happen. 

Beignets, like any doughnut, are best served hot and fresh out of the fryer and with a hot cup of café au lait. This batch makes about 30 to 40 squares, depending on how thick you roll them, perfect for a Mardi Gras brunch before the parades. Still looking for some Mardi Gras party food ideas? Click right here and grab some inspiration. 

Just want a few beignets or in a hurry? Scroll down to the very bottom and check out my Cheater Beignets too! 



Check out more of my dessert recipes and sweet treats on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Desserts & Sweet Bites 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


3K+ 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: French Market Beignet Doughnuts 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 30 min |	Yield: About 30 donuts servings 

Ingredients 
1 envelope (2-1/4 teaspoons) of active dry yeast 
1/4 cup of warm water (110 degrees F) 
4 cups of all-purpose flour 
2 tablespoons of vegetable shortening 
1/3 cup of boiling water 
1/4 cup of granulated sugar 
1/2 teaspoon of salt 
1/2 cup of evaporated milk 
1 large egg, beaten 
Powdered sugar, sifted 
Instructions 

Dissolve the yeast in the warm water and set aside. Whisk the flour and set aside. Pour the boiling water over the shortening and stir until the shortening is melted.  

Preheat deep fryer to 360 degrees F. In a large bowl, combine 2 cups of the sifted flour with the sugar and salt, melted shortening, milk, egg, and yeast mixture. Add enough additional flour to form a shaggy dough. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and roll thin - somewhere between 1/4-inch and 1/8-inch thick. Using a pizza wheel, cut the dough into 2-inch squares.  

Drop into hot fryer and brown on one side until golden, flip and brown on the other side. Remove and drain on paper towels, sprinkle with sifted powdered sugar and serve immediately with a piping hot cup of café au lait. 

Cook's Notes: Makes between 30 and 40, depending on how thick you roll them. Sometimes you will need all of the flour, sometimes you'll need less - depends on the weather, rain, humidity, etc. in my opinion!  

Sopapillas: Omit powdered sugar and dust these generously with a cinnamon sugar mix as soon as they exit the fryer and again as they cool slightly. Serve with honey. 




START RECIPE



Butterscotch Pull Apart Bread 
I'm sure everybody has a recipe like this, made with frozen bread rolls and butterscotch pudding. Even Paula Deen makes it and calls it the Ultimate Coffee Cake, and I made it too, so here it is! Mine is an adaptation of the Rhodes Famous Butterscotch Bubbleloaf, but it's virtually the same recipe that Paula uses too. Nothing could be easier either since you pretty much just dump very convenient Rhodes frozen dinner rolls into a bundt pan and sprinkle the top with butterscotch pudding the night before you want to have this for breakfast. 



I've seen just about every imaginable variation of this pull apart bread though - some using biscuits, some using frozen bread dough that is thawed and cut up, some dipping and rolling the individual pieces in the butter and then in cinnamon sugar, some let the bread dough rise, then sprinkle it with the cinnamon sugar, let it rise again, then dip it, some using only granulated sugar, some only brown sugar, some a combination, some a little bit of sugar, some a lot more, some mix the pudding with the sugars, some don't use pudding. 

In other words, if there is a way to change this up, somebody's probably already done it! Have I mentioned that I'm a bit lazy? That's why this version is great - you don't even have to thaw the rolls! After you add the dry pudding mix to the frozen rolls, you sprinkle the brown sugar and cinnamon mixture on top and then add chopped pecans. 



As y'all have seen with my breakfast casserole, I'm not real hip on things that you have to remember to put together the night before to begin with (too lazy and forgetful), so while you do need to do the night before assembly or earlier in the day if you're making it for later, I love the simplicity of this recipe. It really is basically a dump recipe. Once you get everything into the bundt pan, you just pour some butter over it all and set it aside somewhere to rise.  



No dipping and rolling and all that - though I'm sure if you want to take the time to do that it can only make it better. But for this, just dump it all in a bundt pan, cover loosely with a bit of plastic wrap and stick it in a safe place overnight (or for about 7 hours or so) and then bake it.  

Known by a few names - pull apart bread, monkey bread, and bubble bread to name a few - it's just delicious and so easy to throw together when you let frozen dough do part of the work for you. Enjoy! 


7K+	 
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 
Recipe: Butterscotch Pull Apart Bread 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min +7 hour soak |Cook time: 30 min |	Yield: About 8 servings 

Ingredients 
About 20 frozen Rhodes Bake N Serv dinner rolls 
1 (3 ounce) package of butterscotch cook and serve pudding mix 
3/4 cup of brown sugar, packed 
1 teaspoon of cinnamon 
1/2 cup of chopped pecans 
1/2 cup (1 stick) of butter, melted 
Instructions 

Thoroughly butter or spray a bundt pan and add the frozen dinner rolls in the bottom. Sprinkle with the pudding mix. Mix together the brown sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle on top of the frozen rolls. Sprinkle top with the pecans and pour melted butter all over the top. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and let rise in a draft free place, for about 7 hours, or overnight. 

When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350 degrees and bake for about 25 to 30 minutes. Loosen around the edges of the pan and the center tube and let rest a few minutes: turn out onto a large plate. Let cool slightly and serve warm. 

Cook's Notes: Can substitute 2 (16 ounce) cans of large buttermilk biscuits for the frozen dinner rolls, cutting each biscuit into quarters. Place brown sugar and cinnamon in a zipper bag and add the biscuit quarters, shaking to coat. Add to buttered pan and bake immediately (no rise time necessary). 


START RECIPE


Easy Cheater Cinnamon Rolls 
I am of the opinion that it is difficult to make a bad cinnamon roll, no matter what recipe you use. Honestly, a good cinnamon roll needs basically three things. Generous amounts of butter, plenty of cinnamon sugar and a boatload of icing. Maybe not for the faint of heart - but we don't eat them everyday now do we? The dough itself is really almost secondary to those things, so I say why not get a little help there?

Rhodes frozen dough is wonderful just for that. Though they do take some planning and time for thawing and rising, they are still a time saver from starting with scratch dough, so I try to have some kind on hand in the freezer. I had recently been working through the freezer trying to use up things and I happened to have a partial bag of Rhodes white dinner rolls that were leftover from making Butterscotch Pull Apart Bread recently. I figured eventually I would just have them as rolls with supper one day, but then I thought, I've made cheater cinnamon rolls before with the Rhodes loaf bread ... why couldn't I do it with the dinner rolls?  I put them into the refrigerator to thaw and the next day, transformed them into these cinnamon rolls by rolling them out together.

This recipe makes one pan of one dozen rolls. Sprinkle a bit of flour onto the counter, and gently knead the thawed dough together to form one ball. Flatten and using a rolling pin, roll into a long rectangle, moving the dough around to make sure that it doesn't stick. Pour the melted butter over the surface of the dough and using your hand, smear it all over the dough, almost to the edges. 



Sprinkle the dough generously with cinnamon sugar and roll up into a long roll as tightly as possible. Cut that into half and then cut each half evenly into 6 slices, for a total of 12 rolls.



Place the rolls in a well buttered cake pan, cover very loosely with a square of plastic wrap that has been sprayed with non-stick cooking spray, and put in a draft free, warm spot to rise.



Bake in a preheated 350 degree oven for about 25 minutes or until lightly browned. Don't let them get quite this dark - as usual, I got distracted and nearly forgot about them! Now y'all know why I don't bake much.  Mix up the icing and pour all over the top of the hot rolls and let it soak in a bit before pulling one out.  My favorite ones as the ones with all the soft sides, right in the middle section.



Yum. See that part in the center? Yep, I'm a center roll girl - my absolute favorite part. If I could figure out how to make a pan of just those centers, I'd be a millionaire I swear.



The beauty of this is if, like me, you only had say 8 or 10 Rhodes rolls leftover in the freezer, you can still fill the pan with a dozen rolls, but if you are buying rolls specifically to make these, use about 12 of the Rhodes frozen dinner rolls, or, of course, one loaf of the frozen bread dough. Rhodes rolls take anywhere from 1 to 2 hours to thaw at room temperature: bread about 2 to 3 hours. You can also thaw dough in the refrigerator. Rolls will need about 8 to 12 hours: bread 10 to 12 hours. Thawing time is not included in the prep time for the recipe.



For more of my sweet rolls and breads, check out my page on Pinterest!

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes, Breads: Sweet, Rolls, Muffins
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 



6K+Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Easy Cheater Cinnamon Rolls 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 15 min |Cook time: 25 min |	Yield: 12 rolls 

Ingredients 

For the Rolls: 
1 loaf frozen bread dough (like Rhodes), thawed at room temperature 
1/4 cup butter, melted and cooled, plus more softened for the baking pan 
1/2 cup granulated sugar 
1 heaping tablespoon cinnamon 
For the Icing: 
1-1/2 cups powdered sugar 
1 tablespoon butter, melted 
3 tablespoons of half and half or milk 
1/2 teaspoon of pure vanilla extract 
Instructions 

See note at bottom for thawing directions. Sprinkle a bit of flour on the counter, flatten and roll dough into a long rectangle, approximately 12 x 16 inches. Pour the 1/4 cup of melted butter over the surface of the dough and using your hand, smear it all over the dough, almost to the edges. Combine cinnamon and sugar and spread generously over the dough. Roll up jelly roll style, into a long roll, as tightly as possible. Cut into a total of 12 even pieces. Smear the softened butter all over the inside of a 9-inch cake pan. Lay the rolls in the cake pan just slightly apart - you should be able to fit 9 around the outside and 3 in the middle. 

Cover rolls very loosely with a square of plastic wrap that has been sprayed with non-stick cooking spray. Place in a warm spot and let rise until doubled.  

To bake, preheat to 350 degrees F. Bake for about 20-25 minutes or until done. Prepare the icing and pour evenly all over the top and down into all the cracks and crevices of the hot rolls, letting it absorb into the rolls slightly before serving. 

Cook's Note: May substitute 12 frozen white dinner rolls. Frozen rolls will take anywhere from 1 to 2 hours to thaw at room temperature: bread about 2 to 3 hours. You can also thaw dough in the refrigerator. Rolls will need about 8 to 12 hours: bread 10 to 12 hours. You may also prepare the rolls, place them into a cake pan and place the pan in the refrigerator overnight. Remove in the morning and let them come to room temperature and continue rising if needed, before baking. 

Tip: To speed up the rise of the rolls try this tip. Preheat the oven to the lowest oven temperature, barely on, placing a pan of very hot water on the bottom oven rack to create a steam environment. Once you roll and cut the rolls, turn off the oven and place the covered pan on the top rack of the oven: let rise until doubled. Proceed with recipe to bake. 

Like Cinnabon Rolls: For the filling, substitute 1 stick butter combined with 2 cups packed dark brown sugar, 1-1/2 tablespoons cinnamon and 2 teaspoons cornstarch. Mix well and spread on dough. Finish with cream cheese icing. 

Cream Cheese Icing: Beat together 4 ounces cream cheese with 1/2 stick butter until well combined. Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla and powdered sugar, mixing on low to combine, then on high until creamy. 

Pecan Roll Variation: For Pecan Rolls, substitute a mixture of 1/4 cup of brown sugar, with 1/4 cup of melted butter and 2 tablespoons of corn syrup for the melted butter: spread on dough. Mix together another 1/3 cup brown sugar and 1/2 cup of pecans: sprinkle on top. Continue as above. Divide 1/2 cup of chocolate chips between the pecan and topping mixture to make them chocolate. 

Harvest Rolls: Prepare filling as above for Like Cinnabon rolls, except use light brown sugar. Sprinkle dough with 1/2 teaspoon each lemon and orange zest. Spread filling on dough and sprinkle with 1 cup of finely chopped, peeled and cored apple, 1/4 cup golden raisins and 1/2 cup finely chopped pecans or walnuts. Roll up and bake as above and finish with cream cheese icing. 



START RECIPE

Creole Smothered Swiss Steak 
A stepped up version of Swiss Steak, Creole Smothered Steak can use either cube steaks, which have already been tenderized, or other beef steaks such as chuck or round steak which is cheaper, but also leaner cuts of beef and definitely needing tenderizing. Be sure not to skip that step. You can grab a simple explanation of how to do that by clicking right here. I also like to infuse a bit of additional flavor into my round steak by soaking it in a marinade or flavor enhancer, such as Dale's shown below. That is completely optional and you can certainly skip that step, particularly if you are ing sodium intake.  

If you have to open a new can of tomato paste for this, be sure to check out my tip on what to do with the rest of the can. Otherwise, you know what will happen don't you? You'll stick some aluminum foil on top of the can, put it in the fridge thinking you'll use it on something, forget about it and then one day far, far in the future, you will find it, and well... let's just say it won't be purty and into the trash can it'll go! Save that tomato paste with this tip, and you'll have it for another future use. 



For more of my favorite recipes using cube steaks and round steaks pop over to my Pinterest page! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Beef, Cube & Round Steak 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 

14K+Save 
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Creole Smothered Swiss Steak 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 30 min |Cook time: 1 hour 30 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
6 cube steaks or tenderized bottom round steak (3 to 4 pounds) 
Original Dale's seasoning or Worcestershire sauce 
1/2 cup of all purpose flour 
6 turns of the pepper grinder 
1 teaspoon of Lawry's seasoned salt 
2- 3 tablespoons of canola oil 
1 medium green pepper, chopped 
1 medium onion, chopped  
1 can of Coca-Cola Classic 
1tablespoon of tomato paste 
1 tablespoon of Better Than Bouillion Beef Base or beef bouillon granules 
1/2 teaspoon of dried thyme, crushed 
1/2 teaspoon of dried rosemary, crushed 
1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon of Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama), or to taste 
1 (14.5 ounce) can of diced tomatoes 
Instructions 

Pour Dale's seasoning or Worcestershire sauce on tenderized round steak and let sit for 20 minutes. Mix the flour, seasoned salt, and pepper. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a heavy bottomed, lidded skillet over medium high heat. You'll need that lid here in a bit. Drain the steaks and dredge then lightly in the flour mixture, cooking them in the hot oil, 2 or 3 at a time, without crowding them, until browned, about 3 minutes per side. Set aside. 

In that same skillet and adding additional oil if needed to equal 1 tablespoon, add the green pepper and onion and cook for about 5 minutes, until tender. Pour in the cola and turn skillet up to high. Add the tomato paste, beef base or bouillon, thyme, rosemary and Cajun seasoning, stirring until blended in. Add the diced tomatoes, bring back up to a boil, reduce heat to medium and allow to simmer until reduced slightly. 

Reduce heat to a low simmer and return the steaks to the skillet one at a time, turning to coat both sides and stacking to the side until all steaks have been coated. Spread them out, cover and cook over medium low for 1-1/2 hours or until tender, occasionally shaking the skillet to prevent the steaks from sticking. Do not allow the sauce to boil! You only want it on a very low simmer. 

Serve over hot cooked noodles, or rice. 

Crockpot: This recipe also does well in a slow cooker when using (bottom) round or other slow braising steaks. May cut into strips, if desired, and prepare as noted except do not return the steaks to the skillet. Add them to the slow cooker and pour the cooked sauce on top. Cook on low for about 6 to 8 hours, or high for 4 to 5 hours, or until tender. 



START RECIPE


Steak Parmesan 
Steak Parmesan is a real family-pleaser that comes together quick, so you can get it prepped, cooked and on the table in under 45 minutes. I usually do 4 cube steaks, leaving leftovers for the two of us. For a family you'll probably want to do at least 6 to 8 cube steaks and increase some of the ingredients just slightly. This also works fantastic with a sprinkling of mozzarella on top, instead of the additional Parmesan. 

Here, I served this with a side of parslied potatoes - just simply peeled and chopped potatoes, that have been boiled, then drained and tossed with melted butter, salt and pepper and parsley - Mama used to make those all the time. Add a simple mixed garden salad. Pan roasted potatoes would also be nice. Easy, simple, and quick. Dig in and enjoy.  



For more of my favorite recipes using cube steaks, pop over to my Pinterest page! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Beef, Cube & Round Steak 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 

812Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Steak Parmesan 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 25 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
2 tablespoons of bacon fat, vegetable or canola oil 
3/4 cup of Italian style bread crumbs 
1/2 to 3/4 cup of shredded Parmesan cheese, divided 
Pinch of kosher salt 
6 turns of the pepper grinder 
Couple shakes of Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama) or to taste, optional 
1 egg, beaten 
1/3 cup of milk 
4 to 6 cube steaks 
1-1/2 cups of pizza or marinara sauce 
Instructions 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Heat the bacon fat in a heavy bottomed skillet over a heat that is just over medium to medium high, until melted. Meanwhile, in a shallow dish combine the bread crumbs with half of the Parmesan cheese, reserving the other half of cheese: add the salt, pepper and Cajun seasoning to the bread crumbs. Beat the egg with the milk. Dip the cube steaks into the egg mixture and then dredge in the bread crumbs. Brown in the hot oil over medium heat for about 3 minutes per side. Remove to a baking dish. 

Pour pizza or marinara sauce evenly over the tops of the cube steaks and bake at 350 degrees, uncovered, for about 20 to 25 minutes. Remove, sprinkle with remaining Parmesan, return to oven just long enough to melt cheese. 

Cook's Notes: If using the pre-made beef fritter patties, brown the patties in the hot oil and put them into the baking dish. Then sprinkle the patties with half of the Parmesan cheese and top with the pizza sauce. Bake and sprinkle the top with the remaining cheese. 

Variation: For Chicken Parmesan, substitute boneless, skinless chicken breasts, placing between layers of plastic wrap and using the flat side of a mallet, pound to an even thickness. Brown for about 3 minutes per side, transfer to the baking dish, top with marinara sauce and bake at 350 for about 20 minutes, or until chicken is cooked through. Top with Parmesan, return to oven just long enough to melt cheese. 


START RECIPE


Old Fashioned Pot Roast 
A good old fashioned pot roast calls for a chuck roast in my eyes. Chuck is an economical cut of beef that is pretty tough and fatty, but very flavorful, and requires a low and slow braise for several hours in just a bit of liquid, making it a great roast to plan for Saturday or Sunday dinner for most of us. While you certainly can cook it in a slow cooker, and I have, I love letting it simmer nice and slow on the stove or in the oven the most.  

I personally would prefer my roast a bit more on say, the medium rare side, but most meat I have to cook pretty well done around here for The Cajun. I'm working on him though, and have been able to get him down to a medium and {shockingly} even a more pinkish medium-rare on steaks finally. My Mama was the same way with beef. She cooked meat to the point of past well done, but somehow through all those goings-on in my formative years, I managed to become a more rare to medium rare kinda gal when it comes to beef. Go figure! 

If you're working with a different cut of beef, I've got a few other roast recipes up. One is an Oven Braised Beef Eye of Round Roast with Pan Gravy, another is an Oven Roasted Beef Rump Roast with Mushroom Gravy, but for my slow-simmered pot roast, this is the way I've been doing my chuck roast for as long as I have been cooking. 

Here's how to do it. 

As I mentioned, my favorite roast for this method of cooking is a chuck. Here I'm using a shoulder roast. You can stud the roast with garlic if you like, add chopped garlic to the pot, or simply leave it out. I'm gonna stud this one. Peel a couple of nice large garlic cloves. 



Then cut those into multiple slivers. To stud a roast you just simply make small cuts into the roast with the tip of a knife. 



Insert a sliver of garlic into the cut and push it deep into the meat until it disappears. 



Repeat this all over the roast. Mix together the flour coating - flour, salt, pepper, Cajun seasoning, onion powder and garlic powder. Sprinkle half of the flour mixture on the top of the roast, rub in, turn and sprinkle remaining flour mix over the other side of roast. Rub mixture into the roast, turning until thoroughly covered, including sides. 



Heat 2 tablespoons of fat or oil in large pot that has a lid over medium high heat and carefully place the roast into the hot oil searing it on all sides. While meat is browning, slice onion into slightly thick rings. 



When both sides of the roast are browned, sprinkle rosemary into your palm and crush it to break it up. Sprinkle over the top of the meat. Repeat with the thyme. When I have beef stock on hand, or a carton of commercial broth opened already, I use that. When I don't, I just mix up some Better Than Bouillon. This stuff is so beautifully rich and adds incredible flavor anywhere you'd normally use beef broth or bouillon, and I always have some in my fridge. 



Break the onion slices apart into separate rings and drop in a bay leaf toss along sides and top of roast. Pour beef stock all around roast and bring to a boil. 



I decided to do the Yankee Pot Roast version here, so I added in some celery, then reduced heat to a medium-low simmer, covered and cooked for about 2-1/2 to 3 hours, or until tender, turning once about halfway through. The last half hour, I add a pound or so of potatoes, peeled and cut into quarters or chunks, and 2 to 3 large carrots, cut into chunks or sliced thick. Cover and cook for the remaining 1/2 hour or more, until vegetables are fork tender. 



Serve roast on a platter, surrounded with veggies, spooning pan juices over both. 



If you prefer not to add veggies just keep it pure beef, use the drippings to make a nice gravy and serve with a side of homemade mashed potatoes and maybe some southern peas or green beans. If you've got some green tomatoes in the garden, how about a side of some fried green tomatoes for a change?! Don't forget the rolls! No matter how ya pair it up, sure sounds like a mighty fine meal to me! Eat. Enjoy. Can I hear a yum? 

Check out more of my beef roast recipes on Pinterest y'all! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Beef, Roast 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 

7K+Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Old Fashioned Pot Roast 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 3 hours |	Yield: About 6 to 8 servings 

Ingredients 
3 to 5 pound beef chuck roast 
Several garlic cloves, cut into slivers, optional 
2 tablespoons of bacon fat, Crisco shortening, or canola oil 
Heaping 1/4 cup of all purpose flour 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly cracked black pepper 
1 teaspoon of Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama), or to taste 
1/2 teaspoon onion powder 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1 medium onion, sliced 
1 teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed 
1 teaspoon dried thyme, crushed 
1-1/2 cups of beef stock or broth 
1 large bay leaf 
Instructions 

Stud the roast by using the tip of a knife to cut multiple small slits in areas all over the meat and inserting slivers of garlic into each cut, if desired.  Heat 2 tablespoons of fat or oil in large pot that has a lid over medium high heat. In a small bowl, stir together flour, salt, pepper, Cajun seasoning, onion powder and garlic powder with a fork. Sprinkle half of the flour mixture on the top of the roast, rub in, turn and sprinkle remaining flour mix over the other side of roast. Rub mixture into the roast, turning until thoroughly covered, including sides. 

Using tongs, carefully place the roast into the hot oil and sear it on all sides. While meat is browning, slice onion into slightly thick rings. When both sides of the roast are browned, sprinkle rosemary into your palm and crush it to break it up. Sprinkle over the top of the meat. Repeat with the thyme. 

Break the onion slices apart into separate rings and toss along sides and top of roast. Pour beef stock all around roast and bring to a boil. Drop in a bay leaf, reduce to a medium-low simmer, cover and cook for about 2-1/2 to 3 hours, or until tender, turning once. Baste roast or make gravy from the pan drippings and serve with rolls or French bread. Serving size is dependent on size of the roast.  

Cook's Notes: Use a wide spatula to extract your roast in one large piece. Set aside to rest as you use the pan drippings to make gravy, or simply pour pan drippings over the roast. Cut into chunks. 

Yankee Pot Roast Variation: Add 1 stalk of celery, chopped or cut into thick slices with the onion. Last half hour, add in 1 to 1-1/2 pounds of potatoes, peeled and cut into quarters or chunks, and 2 to 3 large carrots, cut into chunks or sliced thick. Add additional stock or broth if needed, and cook remaining 1/2 hour or more, until vegetables are fork tender. Serve roast on a platter, surrounded with veggies, spooning pan juices over both. 

Crockpot Variation: Sear off roast as above, if desired. Otherwise, simply salt and pepper the roast and omit the flour seasoning. If using vegetables, place all of them into the bottom of the crockpot. Add roast to the top and pour 1/2 cup of beef stock or broth over and around the roast. Reduce thyme and rosemary to 1/2 teaspoon and sprinkle on top of roast. Cover and cook on low for 8 to 9 hours, depending on the size of the roast. 

Electronic Pressure Cooker Variation: Season, dust, stud and sear off roast as above: set aside. Add onion and celery and saute for a few minutes. Increase beef broth to 3 cups, adding herbs. Add a splash of the broth to deglaze pan, return roast, and top with carrots and potatoes. Seal, cook on high for 50 minutes, let release naturally. For thicker gravy, mix together 1-1/2 tablespoons of cornstarch with a tablespoon of cool water, stir into drippings and use browning setting to bring to a boil. Boil until thickened. Taste, adjust any seasonings as needed. Stir in 1/4 cup of chopped fresh herbs such as parsley, if desired. 

Tip: DO NOT BOIL! Boiling will toughen the fibers of the meat and give you a tough and chewy roast: a slow simmer will result in a tender and moist roast. Check it with an instant read thermometer for desired doneness. The roast is done when the temperature in the center reaches 120°F to 125°F, (49°C to 52°C) for rare, 130°F to 140°F (55°C to 60°C) for medium rare, 145°F to 150°F (63°C to 66°C) for medium, and 155°F to 165°F (68°C to 74°C) for well done (Note: 120° is a pretty rare roast). 



START RECIPE


John's Yankee Pot Roast 
When a reader, John, shared this recipe with me, I have to say that I was intrigued by his use of canned vegetable soup for a Yankee Pot Roast. Originally from Wisconsin, John was stationed in South Carolina in the 70's and apparently decided to stick around! He refers to himself as a Southernified Yankee.  

In the end, the soup not only provided great flavor, but also because it contained some green beans, potatoes and carrots, it is perfect for spooning over homemade creamed potatoes. John mentioned that he sometimes adds in extra fresh carrots and potatoes to round it out a bit more though, so feel free to add the additional vegetables if you like. 

This roast is super easy to throw together too. Sear the roast on both sides in a bit of oil. Whisk together the water, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, hot pepper sauce and garlic salt. 



Stir in the two cans of soup. Add slices of butter to the top of the roast if using, and pour the soup over the top. 



Cover and bake at 350 degrees F for about 2 hours, or until tender, stirring occasionally. If you would like more substantial vegetables, add in a half a stalk of sliced celery and some fresh onion in with the soup mixture, and in the last hour of cooking, add in about 3 large carrots, peeled and cut into quarters and 2 large baking potatoes, peeled and cut into chunks. Cook until meat and vegetables are tender. 



This roast has very nice flavor, with just a tiny bit of a bite thanks to the addition of hot pepper sauce, and The Cajun and I both loved it. I hope you will too. Thanks so much John!! 

216Save	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 
Recipe: John's Yankee Pot Roast 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 2 hours |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
3 to 4 pound chuck roast 
1-1/2 tablespoons of olive or canola oil 
1-1/2 cups of water 
1 cup ketchup 
1 tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce 
1 teaspoon of hot pepper sauce 
1/2 teaspoon of garlic salt 
2 cans of condensed vegetable soup, undiluted 
1/4 cup of cold butter, sliced, optional 
Creamed potatoes 
Instructions 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.  In a cast iron Dutch oven or other heavy bottomed, lidded pot, heat the oil and brown the meat on both sides.  In a separate bowl, whisk together the water, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, hot sauce and garlic salt.  Add the two cans of undiluted soup and mix well. Slice butter and scatter across the top of roast. Pour the soup mixture over the top, cover and bake at 350 degrees F for about 2 hours, or until tender, stirring occasionally. 

Serve with a side of creamed potatoes, scooping the pan gravy over the potatoes and meat, add a nice side salad and some rolls. 

Note: I used Campbell's condensed Old Fashioned Vegetable soup and Slap Ya Mama hot pepper sauce. 

Variation: Use stew meat to make this into a stew instead of a roast. Also, if you would like more substantial vegetables, you could add in a half a stalk of sliced celery and some onion in with the soup mixture, and in the last hour of cooking, add in about 3 large carrots, peeled and cut into quarters and 2 large baking potatoes, peeled and cut into chunks. Cook until meat and vegetables are tender. 



START RECIPE


Mexican Shredded Beef For Tacos 
Until I started reading up on them, I never knew that authentic Mexican tacos were made using shredded beef, rather than the Americanized version of Tex-Mex style ground beef tacos we are all accustomed to in the United States, and yes, even in our Mexican restaurants. 

The other day I was at the grocery store and it happened to be one of the days that they reduce meat, because I noticed lots of yellow stickers from across the aisle in the meat case. So, I wandered over to see what they had and found a great chuck roast for just a couple bucks.  



The meat is so incredibly tender and has a nice flavor, even standing on its own, but for a big boost of heat, include some chopped, canned chipotle peppers in adobo sauce, though be careful. Chipotles are smoked jalapenos, and unless you absolutely know your heat level with them, they can be extremely hot. Once you stack heat into a dish with levels of powders and chilies, you just really can't take it away. Use whatever smoked or roasted chilies you prefer if you'd rather. 

Fry fresh corn tortillas into shells and then stuff them, or bake prepared taco shells in the oven if you prefer. You can also just warm corn tortillas or use flour tortillas to make soft tacos. 



You can also prepare tacos by stuffing corn tortillas and then deep frying them, 



While you may not want to eat fried tacos on a daily basis, these tacos were totally over the top good - it may be hard to go back to tacos made with ground beef again. Just delicious! Besides tacos, use this shredded beef for chalupas, flautas, taquitos, enchiladas, burritos, Mexican pizza and many of your favorite Tex-Mex beef based recipes. 



For more of my favorite Tex-Mex recipes, visit my page on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Mexican and Tex-Mex 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 



26K+Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Mexican Shredded Beef For Tacos 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 4 hours |	Yield: About 12-15 tacos 

Ingredients 
1 (3 to 4 pound) chuck roast 
1 tablespoon cooking oil 
2 teaspoons kosher salt 
2 teaspoons freshly cracked black pepper 
1 tablespoon cumin 
1-1/2 tablespoons Mexican chili powder 
2 teaspoons garlic powder 
2 teaspoons onion powder 
1 teaspoon oregano 
3 bay leaves 
2 cups finely minced Vidalia or other sweet yellow onions 
1/2 tablespoon chopped, chipotle in adobe sauce, or to taste, optional 
Oil for frying 
Corn or flour tortillas or prepared taco shells 
Ingredients 

Important Note: This recipe requires a total of about 4 hours of stovetop cooking time in order to be tender enough to shred.  

Cut roast in half. Combine seasonings and sprinkle generously all over roast: reserve remaining seasoning. Add oil to stockpot and brown meat on both sides. Add reserved seasonings to pot and cover roast with water (or beef broth) plus about an inch: bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 2 hours. Do not allow the meat to boil, only simmer. Add the chopped onion and peppers: continue simmering, covered, for one additional hour. Remove roast and set aside. Continue simmering liquid, skimming fat off of the top, shred meat and return to juices: let simmer 30 minutes to another hour, or until meat is very tender and most of the juices have been absorbed. 

Stuff meat into corn tortillas, fold, pin with wooden toothpicks and deep fry or fry in a skillet with about one inch of hot oil. Remove, let cool slightly and pull apart to dress with lettuce, tomato cheese and taco sauce. Alternatively, you can fry the shells separately then stuff, bake prepared taco shells, and then stuff them, or use warmed corn or flour tortillas for soft tacos. 

Cook's Note: Besides tacos, use this recipe for chalupas, flautas, taquitos, enchiladas, burritos, Mexican pizza and many of your favorite Tex-Mex recipes. 

Instant Pot/Electronic Pressure Cooker: Mix seasonings above and rub all over roast. Use browning setting to brown roast. Add 1-1/2 cups beef broth to pot and top with onion. Seal, cook on high for 50 minutes. Let pressure release naturally, remove roast and set aside until cool enough to shred. Skim off fat and bring liquids to a boil. Mix 1-1/2 tablespoons cornstarch with enough water to dissolve: stir into boiling broth. Cook until thickened. Toss meat with enough of the pot drippings to moisten and offer remaining sauce at the table. 

Slow Cooker: Add 3 cups of water to the slow cooker and whisk in the seasonings and onion. Add the meat, cover and let cook on low for 8 to 10 hours (depending on size of roast), or until meat is tender and falling apart. 

Carnitas: Substitute a similar sized boneless pork shoulder or Boston butt pork roast, cut into chunks, for the beef. Season and prepare as above. Time will be approximately the same, but check at about an hour. Spread refried beans on warmed tortillas and stuff with pork. 


START RECIPE


Chicken Fried Steak 
It would be a rare Southerner who does not preserve and use their bacon drippings, and I'd venture a bet that most of us have a jar or grease pot somewhere in our kitchen or fridge. Bacon fat is great for adding flavor to many dishes anytime that you need just a bit of fat, so we Southern cooks save those drippings every time we have the opportunity to fry up a bit of bacon... which of course we try to do as often as possible. We will use some of those drippings here. 

Chicken fried steak is definitely a mainstay of the South. It's really just a simple cube steak, dredged in seasoned flour, and topped with a milk gravy that is born out of a simple blond roux made with some kind of fat - butter, and very often, bacon fat - and pan drippings with a bit of flour. 

Instead of using water or some type of stock as our gravy base, here we add in milk, or you may also use a combination of both water and milk, to form a creamy smooth gravy. If you start this off with a bit of browned bulk pork sausage and then finish off the gravy, you've got yourself a mighty fine sausage gravy for some homemade biscuits. 

Now there are a couple of different ways to finish off these chicken fried steaks. Some folks like to return their steaks back into the gravy after they are browned, but to me that is a whole 'nother meal. I call that a country style steak, or more commonly, simply cube steaks and gravy. Another method is to transfer the browned steaks to a baking dish, pour the gravy on top and bake it in the oven. 

Personally, I prefer that my chicken fried steak retain its crunch - so I don't dredge mine in the gravy. Instead, I just spoon some of the gravy over the center of each crispy steak and offer the rest of the gravy at the table. The perfect side for this dish is, of course, homemade mashed potatoes, but you may sure serve it up with some rice, beans or whatever sides you like. True, this one is not exactly for the calorie conscience or perpetual dieter, but certainly a warm and comforting, occasional meal. Here's how to make it. 

Get some oil going in a skillet - you'll want about a half cup, depending on the size skillet you're using, plus I like to add in some of that glorious bacon fat for flavor. While the oil is heating, set up a dipping station - just two shallow bowls will do. 

In one of them put 2 eggs, 1 cup of buttermilk or whole milk, and about a tablespoon of hot sauce - more if you like. In the other, whisk together 2 cups of flour - I like to use self-rising flour but you may substitute plain all-purpose if that's what you have on hand, adding in some crushed saltine crackers for extra crunch. Add 1-1/2 teaspoons of seasoning salt, some freshly cracked black pepper, and 1/4 teaspoon of garlic powder. Once you mix up the flour, scoop out 1/4 cup of the seasoned flour and set aside to use later for the gravy. 



Sprinkle cube steaks with Cajun seasoning and use a meat mallet to pound that in. Try to pound the steaks very thin as they do tend to swell a bit as they cook. Season and pound on both sides. Cut the cube steaks into smaller serving sized pieces, or finger strips, if you like. 



Dredge the cube steaks in the seasoned flour. 



Then dip them into the milk and egg wash. 



Then back into the flour. 



Set aside on a plate while the oil is heating. 



Carefully slide the meat into the hot oil, immediately moving it around to make sure it does not stick. You want some oil to get up under the meat right away so that it starts to cook the flour. 



Cook the cube steaks in batches - you don't want to overcrowd the skillet, so I usually do three steaks at a time. Cook over a medium to medium high heat until browned, about 3 to 4 minutes per side - how long will depend on the thickness of the steaks. 



Place the cooked steaks on a rack and keep warm in the oven, or tent very loosely with foil. 



For the gravy, you'll want about 1/4 cup of fat, so remove most of the oil and return only 1/4 cup of fat. For extra richness, I like to add butter to the skillet, then return enough of the oil to equal 1/4 cup fat. Sprinkle in the reserved 1/4 cup of seasoned flour a little at a time. 



Use a wooden spoon, scrape up all of the browned bits from the bottom of the skillet and cook until mixture is blended in and smooth, and a very light blond color. 



Begin whisking in 1-1/2 cups of milk very quickly. 



Until it is incorporated well. 



Bring mixture to a boil and cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until it thickens. Adjust consistency as needed by adding more milk. 



Season gravy with salt and pepper: taste and adjust. 



Retrieve the steaks from the oven, place one or two on each plate and spoon a bit of the gravy across the center of the steak. 



Check out some of my other southern favorites on Pinterest: 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Southern Favorites 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


37K+Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Chicken Fried Steak with Southern Style Peppered Milk Gravy 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 15 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
6 cube steaks (about 3 pounds) 
1/2 cup vegetable or canola oil, plus 2 tablespoons of bacon fat 
2 cups self-rising flour, divided 
1-1/2 teaspoons seasoning salt (like Lawry's) 
1/4 teaspoon freshly cracked black pepper 
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon Creole or Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama) 
1 cup buttermilk or whole milk 
2 large eggs 
1 tablespoon hot sauce, optional 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, along with pan drippings to equal 1/4 cup 
Reserved 1/4 cup seasoned flour 
1-1/2 to 2 cups whole milk 
Kosher salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
Instructions 

Preheat oven to the lowest setting to hold cooked steaks. Place a rack on top of a baking sheet and set aside. Heat the oil and bacon fat in a cast iron or other heavy-bottomed skillet over medium to medium high, to 350 degrees F. 

In a shallow dish, whisk together the flour, seasoning salt, pepper and garlic powder: remove and set aside 1/4 cup of the seasoned flour mixture. In another bowl, beat the 1 cup of milk with the two eggs and hot sauce. Lightly sprinkle the cube steaks with the Cajun seasoning and pound the seasoning in. Cut steaks into smaller serving pieces, if desired. 

Dredge the steaks first in the seasoned flour, shaking to remove the excess flour, then dip them into the egg wash, and back into the flour: set aside on a platter while oil is heating. Carefully slide the meat into the hot oil, immediately moving it around to make sure it does not stick. Cook the cube steaks in batches over a medium to medium high heat until browned, about 3 to 4 minutes per side, depending on the thickness. Place the cooked steaks on the prepared rack and keep warm in the oven. 

For the gravy, drain off most the oil. Add butter to skillet and return enough of the oil as needed to equal a total of 1/4 cup of fat. Sprinkle in the reserved 1/4 cup of seasoned flour, and using a wooden spoon, cook and stir constantly, scraping up all of the browned bits from the bottom of the skillet. Cook until mixture is blended in and a very light blond color. 

Begin whisking in 1-1/2 cups of milk very quickly, bring to a boil and cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture begins to thicken. Adjust consistency as needed by adding more milk. Season gravy with salt and pepper: taste and adjust. Retrieve the steaks from the oven, place one or two on each plate and spoon a bit of the gravy across the center of the steak. Serve with mashed potatoes and southern green beans. 

Cook's Notes: When you add the Cajun seasoning and pound the steaks, be sure to pound them thin as they do tend to swell up as they cook. I like to use self-rising flour because it gives a crunchier crust, but you may substitute plain, all-purpose flour if that is all you have on hand, and mix in 1/2 pack of saltine crackers that have been finely crushed. Don't be tempted to overcook the meat or it will be tough. Length of time will depend on how thick they are, but generally no more than 4 to 5 minutes per side for even the thickest steaks is all that is needed. 

Chicken Fried Steak Fingers: Cube steaks may also be cut into 1-inch strips and breaded as steak fingers.  

Oven Baked: Bring gravy to a near boil, reduce heat to simmer and place steaks into the gravy, turning to coat. Reduce heat, cover and simmer on medium low for 15 to 20 minutes, turning at least once. May also finish in the oven. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place the browned steaks into a casserole dish. Pour gravy on top, cover and bake for about 20 minutes. May also add sauteed onion on top of the steaks before pouring on the gravy, if desired. 

Shortcut Gravy: To make a quick gravy, after removing the steaks from the skillet, stir in one can of cream of mushroom soup and 1/2 soup can of water or milk. 




START RECIPE


Barbecue Beef 
This is an absolutely delicious barbecue beef that is perfect for sandwiches, and so simple. Toss it all into the crockpot in the morning and it's ready for you when you get home. Fresh and homemade from ingredients you control and the flavor shows it. Stick with the fattier cuts of meat, or if you use leaner cuts, use them in combination with a mixture of the fattier cuts for the best flavor. 

Here's how to make it. 

For more of my favorite slow cooker recipes, visit my page on Pinterest!  

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Crockpot / Slow Cooker 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


3K+Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Crockpot Barbecue Beef for Sandwiches 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 7 hours |	Yield: About 6 to 8 servings 

Ingredients 
3 pounds of braising beef (stew meat, bottom round, chuck)* 
1 green bell pepper, chopped 
1 small yellow onion, chopped 
1 (6-ounce) can of tomato paste 
1/2 cup of packed light brown sugar 
1/4 cup of apple cider vinegar 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
2 teaspoons of kosher salt 
1 teaspoon of dry mustard 
2 teaspoons of Worcestershire 
Couple dashes of hot sauce, optional 
Instructions 

Whisk together all of ingredients except for the meat in a slow cooker. Add the meat, cover and cook on high for about 7 hours. Shred meat and pile on toasted buns. 

Cook's Notes: Best with the fattier cuts of meat like chuck, or use a mixture of fattier cuts with lean cuts. Can also use 1/2 beef with 1/2 pork if desired. 




START RECIPE


Oven Braised Beef Eye of Round Roast 
This braised eye of round roast is similar to the rump roast I recently posted, except that this one is made with an eye of round roast and doesn't require an overnight marinade, so it simplifies preparation time a little bit. I don't know about you, but I have the hardest time remembering to do things the night before sometimes. You can also use a rump roast here as well, but if you're looking for a delicious top of the stove rump roast, stop by and check out this recipe for another delicious roast. 

Eye of round is very similar texturally to the rump for slicing, and this recipe produces a nice tender slicing roast that is also super flavorful. Don't go too heavy-handed with the seasoned salt, otherwise between that, the Worcestershire, and the soy sauce, you'll end up with an overly salty roast. The pan drippings make a equally flavorful and easy gravy. Just remember to vigorously whisk in the flour a little at a time so you don't end up with lumps! 

Here's how to make this delicious roast. 



438Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 
Recipe: Oven Braised Beef Eye of Round Roast 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 3 hour 30 min |	Yield: About 6 servings 

Ingredients 
1 (3 to 4 pound) beef eye of round or boneless rump roast 
Worcestershire sauce 
Soy sauce 
Seasoned salt (like Lawry's) 
Garlic powder 
Freshly cracked black pepper 
Water 
1/4 cup of all purpose flour 
Instructions 

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. 

Place a couple of overlapping sheets of aluminum foil, enough to wrap around the roast, into a baking pan. Set the roast on top and bring the foil up around the roast, just slightly to form a cup. Sprinkle the top of the roast with Worcestershire and soy sauce. Then sprinkle lightly with the seasoned salt, garlic powder and ground pepper. Wrap the roast tightly with the foil and bake for 3 to 3-1/2 hours (depending on size). 

Unwrap cooked roast and pour off drippings into a measuring cup that will accommodate at least 3 cups. Set roast aside to rest, tenting with foil to keep warm. 

Add enough water to the pan drippings to make a total of 3 cups of liquid. Pour this into a skillet and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and whisk in the flour, a little at a time, vigorously whisking constantly, until mixture is smooth and thick. 

Serve roast sliced with gravy and homemade mashed potatoes and a side of quick fix Southern style green beans or a nice mixed garden salad. 



START RECIPE


Leftover Brisket Meat Sauce with Rigatoni 
I made this dish using the last of the leftover oven-braised brisket that I made for New Years. I'm actually surprised there was any brisket at all leftover because while it was a huge brisket, it was a dish The Cajun totally loved and devoured, but I'm glad we did have some leftovers because this pasta dish was excellent! 

Any leftover roast you have on hand will work well for this meat sauce and you can use whatever pasta you have in the pantry. I liked it with the rigatoni because it allows for the meat sauce to get all up in those big ole tubes of pasta.  

Here's how to make it. 

527Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 
Recipe: Leftover Brisket Meat Sauce with Rigatoni 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 40 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
1 pound of rigatoni pasta, cooked 
2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil 
1/2 of a large onion, chopped 
1 stalk (rib) of celery, chopped 
1 medium carrot, chopped 
1 large garlic clove, chopped 
1/2 teaspoon of kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoons of freshly cracked black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon of Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama) 
3 to 4 cups of leftover, cooked brisket, chopped 
1 28-ounce can of crushed tomatoes 
1 teaspoon of granulated sugar 
1 large bay leaf 
2 teaspoons of dried parsley flakes 
Red pepper flakes, to taste 
Grated Parmesan cheese 
Instructions 

Cook the rigatoni in well salted water al dente, just until done. Start the sauce. When pasta is done, reserve 1/2 cup of the pasta water, drain the pasta and set aside. 

For the sauce, in a skillet over medium high heat, saute the onion, celery and carrot in the olive oil until soft. Add the garlic and cook a bit longer: stir in the salt, pepper, Cajun seasoning, and brisket. Cook and stir to warm the brisket through. Add the tomatoes, sugar and bay leaf. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce to a simmer and cook for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. 

Add the pasta to the sauce and stir to toss, adding some of the reserved pasta water if needed. Stir in the parsley and red pepper flakes, taste and adjust seasonings. Top individual servings with some grated Parmesan. 



START RECIPE


Slow Braised Oven Brisket 
An oven braised beef brisket is a great way to get a lot of meat for little effort. Of course, you don't necessarily need to buy a 10 pound brisket like I did, but if you do, you'll have plenty of meat to put up in the freezer for other meals. This method works on any size brisket and you'll need about one hour per pound. 

Not being one who has made brisket in the past, I do apologize to any brisket purists out there, since I most certainly new to the brisket experience, but I think that what I got was the untrimmed brisket with all of the fat attached. This produces a lot - and I mean A LOT - of residual fat which provides for a very tender brisket, but also means that you really do not need to start with a lot of braising liquid. If you have a trimmed cut, which I believe may be called first cut, then you would probably want to increase the beef stock to 2 cups. 

Make sure that your pan has a good fitting lid or wrap it tightly with aluminum foil, so that the brisket slowly braises. You don't want any steam to escape. The braising produces a wonderfully tender piece of meat - reminded me much of my pot roast that I do with chuck in fact, because it pretty much just falls apart, so slicing against the grain isn't really gonna happen here. I'm glad that I gave it a try though - the carnivore hubs has not stopped talking about it. That'll make a woman real proud, I tell ya! 

I am told this is more of a Jewish style brisket than say a Texas style brisket - but to me, this is a perfectly simple and delicious braised beef that I know you'll love. Since I went with a huge brisket, mine finished up just after midnight last night after it cooked virtually all day, so I was a bit tired when I took it out and totally forgot to snap a picture of the whole brisket when I took it out of the oven. What you see up there is a picture of a single serving reheated, since I made this yesterday for today (New Year's Day), and below, a super large Tupperware container filled with the just sliced meat and the pan sauce poured over it, which pretty much looks like a big gorgeous blob of meat!  



This with the rest of our New Year's Day meal of black-eyed peas, corned beef and cabbage and cornbread makes for some pretty darned good eatin' folks.  Heck, I might even cook up some greens too ... just for good measure! I can use all the good health, good luck and good fortune that there is out there. 

Wondering what to do with the leftovers? Try this meat sauce and pasta dish. It is delicious! 

For more of my beef roast recipes, visit my page on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Beef, Roast 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


941Save 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Slow Braised Oven Brisket 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 15 min |Cook time: 8 to 10 hours |	Yield: About 10 to 12 servings+ 

Ingredients 
4 large garlic cloves, peeled and smashed 
1 tablespoon kosher salt 
2 teaspoons freshly cracked black pepper 
1 teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
1 (6 to 10-pound) beef brisket 
1 pound carrots, cut into 2-inch chunks 
4 ribs celery, cut into 3-inch chunks 
3 large Vidalia or other sweet onion, quartered 
1 (32 ounce) carton beef stock or broth 
1 (14.5 ounce) diced tomatoes, undrained 
2 tablespoons of dried parsley 
5 large bay leaves 
Instructions 

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Mash together the garlic, salt, and rosemary together until a paste forms. Add 2 tablespoon of olive oil and mix well: set aside. Season both sides of the brisket with plenty of salt and pepper. Rub the rosemary-garlic paste all over the brisket. Drizzle lightly with additional olive oil. 

Sear the brisket in a large pan or Dutch oven over medium-high heat on the stove, to form a nice brown crust on both sides, adding additional oil to the pan as needed to prevent sticking. Remove from heat, scatter the vegetables all around the brisket, adding the beef stock, and diced tomatoes. Sprinkle with parsley, and scatter the bay leaves around the brisket. 

Cover the pan tightly with a lid or several layers of aluminum foil and bake at 325 degrees F for roughly 1 hour per pound, or until fork tender, basting with the pan juices occasionally. Check temperature with an instant read thermometer. Remove the brisket from pan and let it rest on a cutting board for 15 minutes. 

Scoop out all of the vegetables from the pan with a slotted spoon and discard. Spoon excess fat off of the top of the pan drippings or use a gravy separator, pour off the pan juices to separate all of the fat. Return about 1 cup of stock to the roasting pan, set it over medium high heat and let cook until reduced to about one half. Pour over the brisket to serve. If you would like to thicken, mix 1 tablespoon flour with 2 tablespoons water and quickly whisk that into the hot pan juices. 

Cook's Notes: I used a 10 pound brisket and cooked mine for the full 10 hours. May also substitute tomato juice (like V-8) for the beef broth and omit the tomatoes. 



START RECIPE


Chicken in a Pot 
I happened to catch whole chickens on sale for 67 cents a pound recently, so of course I stocked up on a few and had in mind one of them would land as another form of roasted chicken for the Sunday Supper series for sure.  But, as I do sometimes, about mid-stream of beginning to prep the chicken for roasting, I decided to pull down Julia Child's cookbook Mastering the Art of French Cooking and do something different. 

Though it's been around forever, Dorie Greenspan sort of brought Chicken in a Pot back to the forefront with the release of her cookbook Around My French Table and the gorgeous pastry sealed version that graces the cover. Julia Child called this type of trussed chicken, first browned in butter and then roasted in a covered casserole with a mixture of vegetables, herbs and seasonings, Casserole-Roasted Chicken. There are several versions in her cookbook, including this one with bacon, onion and potatoes. 



Though I admittedly took quite a few liberties with her recipe, she was still the inspiration behind this dish, sometimes also known more simply as Pot Roasted Chicken. Remember the Braun Bon Smothered Potatoes I posted not long ago? The potatoes that accompany this roasted chicken are somewhat reminiscent of those, except that these are cooked alongside a casserole roasted chicken, and smothered with onions and bacon, instead of the smoked sausage. The potatoes are infused with several layers of flavors and are simply marvelous. 



I've actually made this pot roasted chicken a couple of times, even once remembering about 20 minutes after I stuck everything in the oven that I'd forgotten to brown it! The browning adds color, but truth is, it's kind of awkward to brown the whole chicken, I don't have a lot of patience, and I really didn't see a significant difference between the two in the finished product anyway, so I think either way would work fine. Even if a tad bit pale in color, the chicken will still be delicious. I do think browning it in a separate shallow skillet is easier, though you will lose the fond, unless you deglaze the pan and add it to the chicken roasting pot. 


Chicken in a Pot - cut into ten pieces and served with the potatoes, onion and bacon on the side on my Blue Willow platter - time to eat! 

For more of my favorite chicken recipes, visit my page on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Chicken 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


2K+ 
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Pot Roasted Chicken with Bacon and Potatoes 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 30 min |Cook time: 1 hour 40 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 

Brine: 
6 cups of water 
1/2 cup of packed brown sugar 
1/4 cup of kosher salt 
Springs of fresh thyme, optional 
1/2 teaspoon of whole peppercorns, optional 
To 6 cups of cool, filtered water, add the brown sugar and kosher salt. Whisk until everything is dissolved: add in the thyme and peppercorns. Place the chicken into a gallon sized zippered bag and pour the brine over the chicken. Seal and place into a container in the refrigerator for about 3 hours, or up to 12 hours.  

Casserole: 
1 (4-5 pound) whole chicken 
Kosher salt and freshly cracked black pepper 
3 cloves of garlic, smashed & peel removed 
5 slices of bacon 
1 cup of sliced onion 
1 tablespoon of canola or vegetable oil 
3 tablespoons of butter, softened at room temperature, divided 
2 pounds of potatoes, sliced 1/4-inch thick 
1/4 cup of water 
2 sprigs of fresh parsley 
2 sprigs of fresh thyme 
2 small bay leaves 
1 loaf of French bread 
Instructions 

Prepare the brine and add the chicken at least 3 hours before cooking. Before cooking, rinse well and pat dry with paper towels. Season the chicken cavity generously with salt and pepper and stuff the smashed garlic into the cavity: truss the chicken and set aside. 

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Slice bacon into the bottom of a large skillet and lightly brown. Add onion and cook until slightly softened. Use a slotted spoon to transfer the bacon and onion to a Dutch oven. Add the oil and 1 tablespoon of the butter to the pan drippings in the skillet and add the chicken, browning on all sides, about 15 minutes total: remove and transfer to the Dutch oven.  To the pan drippings in the skillet add the potatoes, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper and toss to coat. Add water and bring to a boil. Cover the skillet and boil the potatoes for about 3 to 4 minutes to steam them. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter to the potatoes: toss to coat completely.  Transfer the potatoes to the Dutch oven, placing them around the chicken. 

Sprinkle chicken with salt, add the parsley, thyme, and bay leaves: cover and place into the oven. Cook at 325 degrees F, covered, basting a couple of times with the pan juices, for about 1-1/4 to 1 hour 40 minutes, depending on the size chicken, or until chicken is cooked through. Carefully remove the chicken to a carving board, tent with aluminum foil and let rest for 5-10 minutes: cut into serving pieces.  

If serving with French bread, while the chicken rests, turn the oven up to 400 degrees F, wrap French bread in aluminum foil and place in oven until warmed through. Transfer the chicken pieces to a platter, and using a slotted spoon, remove the potatoes and onion, placing those on the side of the chicken or in a separate serving dish. Pour the pan juices all over the top of the chicken, saving some to spoon over the individual servings, if desired. Remove and slice the hot French bread and use it to sop up the juices. Serve with a side salad or green vegetable. 

Cook's Note: You can use butcher's twine to tie together fresh thyme, parsley, and bay leaf, if you prefer. 




START RECIPE


Garlic Roasted Chicken with Vegetables 
There is just something so heart-warming about a roasted chicken, isn't there? The fragrance drifts throughout the house and just smells so wonderful, that sometimes I wonder if it's mostly because it invokes memories associated more with holidays past, than the present.  Thank goodness a nice roast chicken is easy enough to have much more often than the full blown holiday spread! 

This one, though a pretty basic roasted chicken, is based on Ina Garten's garlic chicken that uses two full heads of garlic cut in half and stuffed into the cavity. Don't worry, the garlic flavor is very subtle and not at all overpowering like you would think.  Roasting vegetables right alongside the chicken is a great way to have an already made side dish too. All you need to do is add a salad! 




If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


1K+ 
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Garlic Roasted Chicken with Vegetables 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 1 hour 45 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
1 (5-6 pound) whole roasting chicken 
Olive oil 
Kosher Salt and fresh cracked black pepper 
1 large full head of garlic, cut in half crosswise 
1 lemon, cut in half 
1/2 of a large sweet or yellow onion, sliced very thick 
3-4 large carrots, peeled and cut into chunks 
2 large russet potatoes, peeled and cut into chunks 
4 tablespoons of butter, melted 
2 sprigs of fresh rosemary 
Instructions 

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Drizzle a little bit of olive oil in the bottom of a roasting pan just large enough to hold the chicken and the veggies. Sprinkle the inside of the chicken with salt and pepper. Stuff the lemon halves and garlic halves into the cavity, cover with the flap, and tie the legs together with kitchen twine. Tuck the wings underneath.  

In a bowl, drizzle half of the butter over the vegetables and toss them a bit. Toss the onion, carrots and potatoes all around the chicken and brush the rest of the butter all over the chicken. Sprinkle the veggies and the chicken with salt and pepper. Toss the rosemary sprigs on top of the veggies. 

Roast for about 1-1/2 hours, or until the juices run clear when pierced between the leg and thigh. Transfer the chicken to a platter, cover loosely with aluminum foil. Give the vegetables a toss and return them to the oven to roast another 15 minutes, or until tender. Carve the chicken, place the slices back onto the serving platter and surround the chicken with the roasted vegetables. Serve immediately. 

Cook's Notes: You'll want a larger sized roasting hen for this recipe, rather than a smaller 3 pound fryer. If you have the time, brine your chicken before roasting. It really does make a difference! 

Tip: Use a large roasting pan and roast two birds at once, pretty much in the same amount of time. Set the second chicken aside to cool and then pull the meat off. Bag in 2 cup measures for use in recipes needing cooked chicken - you'll usually get at least 4 cups depending on the size chicken you use. 



START RECIPE


Lemon Roasted Chicken 
Legend has it, that the original engagement chicken first made its appearance almost 30 years ago now, when a Glamour magazine editor shared the recipe for a simple, roasted chicken with an assistant, who prepared it for her boyfriend one evening. A month later he proposed. While you can read more about the story here, all that aside, it's certainly a great recipe for a roasted chicken. There is just something so comforting about the smell of a chicken roasting, that it's one of my favorite methods of cooking chicken.  

This is an adaptation of the original recipe and similar to my Oven Roasted Chicken/Turkey recipe but using a much smaller bird, skipping the brine, and made with extra lemon, no garlic, and starting off the chicken roasting breast down, then flipping it over to finish as usual. I didn't truss this one, though I do recommend it because it cooks better and quicker when it's trussed. Course, I love my oven roasted bird with the buttery pan sauce and a good garlic stuffed one is good too. Heck I just like a good roasted bird.  

Though not necessary, handy tools to have when roasting a chicken are a good roasting pan with rack (I own that one) that will keep the chicken elevated and allow the air and flavor from the aromatics to circulate around the bird. Because all ovens vary and so will cooking time, an in-oven thermometer or at the very least, a basic instant read thermometer is really essential to me. This allows you to check instantly to see if the chicken is at the right temperature and know whether you need additional cooking time, rather than trying to make guesswork of it, and potentially under or over-cooking it. 

For more of my favorite chicken recipes, visit my page on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Chicken 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


1K+ 
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Lemon Roasted Chicken 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 10 min |Cook time: 1 hour 30 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
1 (3 pound) whole roasting chicken 
5 lemons 
4 tablespoons of butter, softened to room temperature & divided 
Kosher salt and freshly cracked black pepper, to taste 
2 cups of chicken stock or broth (omit if not using a rack) 
Instructions 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Squeeze the juice from 3 of the lemons: set aside and reserve the lemon rinds. Remove giblets and neck from the chicken and discard. Place chicken on a roasting rack in an oven roasting pan and pat it dry with paper towels. Smear all over with half of the butter, pour the freshly squeezed lemon juice in the cavity and all over the top of the chicken, and sprinkle with salt and pepper.  

Roll the remaining two lemons on the counter-top to loosen the juices. Carefully puncture the lemons several times with a knife and place them into the back of the cavity of the chicken. Stuff in the lemons you squeezed. Turn the bird upside down so that the breast is on the bottom and pour the chicken broth into the bottom of the roasting pan. Omit the chicken broth if you are roasting the chicken without the rack. 

Place the chicken into the oven, reduce the heat to 350 degrees F and bake for 15 minutes. Remove, and using wooden spoons and a pair of tongs, carefully turn the chicken back over. Continue baking for 35 minutes longer, or until juices run clear and an instant read thermometer inserted in the thigh reads 175 to 180 degrees F.  

Remove the chicken to a wooden cutting board that has a grooved ridge around the edges to reserve juices. Let rest before carving. See video below for carving tips. 

While the chicken is resting, make a butter sauce with the pan drippings. Place the roasting pan over medium high heat and bring the juices to a boil, scraping the bottom of the pan to release any bits of stuck on yum-yums! Cook until the juices have reduced about half. Remove from the heat, stir in the remaining two tablespoons of butter and swirl around until blended in. Spoon sauce over the individual servings of the chicken. 

Cook's Note: If you don't have a roasting pan with a rack,just bake the chicken in a regular roasting or baking pan, but omit the chicken broth. Time is based on the original directions, however, it can take up to 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 hours total cooking time at 350 degrees F, and potentially longer for even larger chickens. Always rely on an instant read thermometer to gauge when your chicken is done. 

Lemon Herb Roasted Chicken: Add a mixture of your favorite fresh or dried herbs - rosemary, thyme, parsley and sage are all good choices. Finely mince the herbs and mix with the butter that you rub over the chicken. 



START RECIPE


Mimi's Rotisserie Style Sticky Chicken 
There must be a hundred sticky chicken recipes on the internet for how to make a homemade rotisserie chicken, every one different from what I consider to be the original sticky chicken - Mimi's.  

Several years back when I had a few extra mouths to feed and was working more than full time, I did the once a month freezer method of cooking. This sticky chicken was one of the most popular chicken recipes back then to make ahead and reserve the meat for casseroles. It's one of the carryovers I have held onto all these years, and that I still love today.  

Even this original sticky chicken recipe has taken on a life of its own across the internet as often happens, but it is rarely credited to the original creator of it, Mimi Hiller, who came up with the seasonings and specific method back in the mid-80s.  The chicken slow roasts at 250 degrees for 5 hours. Yes, you read that right - 250 degrees. 5 hours. Which seems to frighten the heck out of some people. Ms. Hiller claims that it's safe however stating that ...anything over 225 degrees is safe as long as the chicken reaches an internal temperature of at least 155 degrees, (which this does, and more) for about 5 hours. 

Still, I suppose that I should throw in a disclaimer here about how the federal government a/k/a the U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends cooking poultry at oven temperatures of 325 degrees F or higher. So there. I told you. You should therefore proceed with this recipe with that knowledge.
The result of this slow roasting is an incredibly tasty chicken that is both infused with flavor throughout, but is also fall apart tender and juicy, and is somewhat reminiscent of the rotisserie style deli chickens that are so popular these days. I have made this chicken multiple times since those days back then and with absolutely no ill effects and I'm still around, however... if you have concerns about cooking at that low of a temperature, bump up your temperature and adjust the cooking time accordingly. The flavor from the rub will be great ... I just can't vouch for the same exact result. You'll want an internal temperature somewhere around 175/180 degrees, when an instant read thermometer is inserted in the thigh. 

If you remember, put this chicken together the night before so that it marinates overnight with the seasoning rub, but I've forgotten and just roasted it immediately after applying the rub with excellent results too. Grab an extra large chicken or do a couple of smaller chickens when you find them on sale and roast them to shred up and freeze for future meals.  This rub is so delicious, I'm thinking I might even spatchcock a chicken and try this rub on the ole grill.  It'll be a different experience than this, but I cannot imagine it would be anything but delicious. 

This is just one of many ways to roast a chicken, but it is one of the best I've ever eaten. Don't limit the spice mixture to only roasted chicken - there are many applications it can be used for. I'm thinking that it'd be a darned good blackening rub even, if I ever venture outside to smoke out my neighbors with a blackened dish out on the grill one evening. Enjoy. 



For more of my favorite chicken recipes, visit my page on Pinterest! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Chicken 
Follow On  



If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 

32K+ 	
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Rotisserie Style Sticky Chicken 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 15 min |Cook time: 5 hours |	Yield: About 6 to 8 servings 

Ingredients 
1 (under 4 pounds) whole chicken 
1 medium onion, cut into chunks 
4 teaspoons of kosher salt 
1 teaspoon of the pepper grinder 
1 teaspoon of Cajun seasoning (like Slap Ya Mama), or to taste 
1/2 teaspoon of garlic powder 
1 teaspoon of onion powder 
1 teaspoon of white pepper 
2 teaspoons of paprika 
1 teaspoon of dried thyme, crushed 
Instructions 

Preheat oven to 250 degrees. Remove giblets from chicken if it has them. Place the chicken into a roasting pan . 

In a small bowl, mix together thoroughly the salt, pepper, Cajun seasoning, garlic powder, onion powder, white pepper, paprika and thyme and rub this mixture all over the inside and outside of the chicken. Cover loosely and refrigerate overnight if possible, to marinate. If you did not remember to do this, I've cooked them right away also and it is excellent. If cooking right away, roughly chop the onion and stuff into the cavity of the chicken. If marinating overnight, wait to stuff the onion in the chicken until just before roasting. 

Roast uncovered at 250 degrees F for 5 hours. After the first hour passes, begin basting the chicken with the pan juices periodically. The chicken is ready when the internal temperature is between 165 degrees F when an instant read thermometer is inserted into the thickest part of the thigh. Let rest 10 to 15 minutes before carving. 

Tip: Roast two chickens at a time and reserve one for use in other dishes. Check out Ten Delicious Things to Do With a Rotisserie Chicken! 

Slow Cooker Version: Prepare the chicken as above and refrigerate overnight to marinade if desired. Halve 2 small onions and place in the bottom of a 6 quart crockpot along with 6 to 8 whole red potatoes. You may also line bottom of crockpot with balled up aluminum foil instead of the vegetables if you prefer. Place seasoned chicken on top, cover and cook on low for about 6 to 7 hours or high for 3 to 4 - actual time will be dependent on size of chicken. Chicken will be done when an instant read thermometer inserted at the thickest part of the thigh registers 175 degrees F. Use a long fish spatula to extract the chicken whole if possible and let rest before carving. Defat the drippings if desired to make a gravy, or cool, transfer to refrigerator and scoop off fat, freezing the remaining broth for another use. Chicken will be very tender that it may fall off the bone, so this method of preparation is not recommended for a presentation pretty chicken.  
Disclaimer: The U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends cooking poultry at oven temperatures of 325 degrees or higher. You should proceed with this recipe with that knowledge and at your own risk. 
To Bake: For larger chickens, 4 to 4-1/2 pounds in size, increase oven temperature to 350 degrees F, prepare as above and bake for about 1-1/2 hours or until juices run clear and an instant read thermometer registers 165 degrees when measured at the thickest part of the thigh, away from the bone. Let chicken rest 10 to 15 minutes until carving. 



START RECIPE


Oven Roasted Hen or Turkey with Buttery Pan Sauce 
This post was written for open roasting (meaning not covered or wrapped) and using a 7 pound hen, but it is the same basics for roasting a turkey, so everything pretty much applies to a bigger bird. 

While you're here, be sure to check out my other posts for how to brine, how to truss a bird, and also click here for some holiday side dishes like, Homemade Herb Dressing, Parslied Corn, Carottes Glacées, Maple Glazed Baby Carrots, Mashed Potatoes with Cream Cheese, Traditional Southern Sweet Potato Casserole and other southern favorites. 

So, how about this vintage Corningware Cornflower pattern roasting pan, eh? I told ya'll I have some old dishes and I wasn't kiddin' ... I meant old, and not passed down old either. Nope, like many of my kitchen things, I've had this one since the late 70s and I still use it all the time. This one works great for roasts, chickens and large hens. 



I do now have this proper stainless roasting pan (pictured below) and I LOVE it for roasting my larger turkeys. While it's not one of those heavy-duty, commercial grade high dollar roasters, it's an excellent and heavy 18/10 stainless roaster ... and a little less expensive - check it out! I still love my old vintage pan, but I finally got a large enough pan that I can do a large turkey in, yay! 


Calphalon 6-Inch Roaster with Nonstick Roasting Rack 


But, back to this bird ... you're going to need to start with some salt, pepper, garlic, rosemary and a large lemon. (If you brine, skip the salt.)  I used dried rosemary but use fresh if you have it. Slice that lemon up fairly thin and set it aside. 

Smash up the garlic, discard the peeling and set the garlic aside too. 

Then combine the salt (skip if you brine), pepper and rosemary in a small bowl and pour it into the cavity of the bird, rubbing it all over inside. 

Now, toss the lemon and garlic into the cavity. 

Truss the bird up nicely. 

Then place it into the roasting pan and slather the butter all over it. 

Sprinkle with some salt and pepper. (Remember to skip the salt if you brined!) 

Stick in the preheated 350 degree F oven and roast, basting with the pan juices occasionally. Remove and let rest: slice and pour a little bit of the pan juices, or homemade gravy, on top of each serving and enjoy! 




For more of my favorite poultry recipes, pop over to my Pinterest page! 

Mary Foreman | Deep South DishRecipes - Chicken 
Follow On  


If you make this or any of my recipes, I'd love to see your results! Just snap a photo and hashtag it DeepSouthDish on social media or tag me @deepsouthdish on Instagram! 


3K+ 
share on Facebooktweet thisshare on LinkedInshare on Google+ 

Recipe: Oven Roasted Hen 
©From the Kitchen of Deep South Dish 
Prep time: 15 min |Cook time: 2 hour 30 min |	Yield: About 4 to 6 servings 

Ingredients 
1 instant read thermometer (this is essential!) 
1 (approx. 7 pound) roasting hen 
1 large lemon 
1/2 tablespoon of dried rosemary, crushed 
1 teaspoon of kosher salt and 20 grinds of the pepper mill (skip the salt if you brine) 
3 cloves of garlic, smashed 
Cotton twine, well soaked with water 
3 tablespoons of unsalted butter, softened to room temperature, plus 1 extra tablespoon for the pan sauce 
Instructions 

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine salt, pepper and rosemary in a small bowl: set aside. If you have brined your bird omit the salt.  

Remove giblet package from bird: save for giblet gravy or discard. Rinse the bird well, inside and out and set aside in the roasting pan, or on a platter or tray. Using some paper towels, pat the bird dry inside and out. Let sit at room temperature to fully dry for a few minutes.  

Smash and peel the garlic: set aside. Slice the lemon into fairly thin slices: set aside. Set aside the butter. Pour the salt mixture into the cavity of the bird, rubbing it all around inside. Add the garlic and lemon slices. Truss the bird and place into a roasting pan, breast side up. Rub all over with the softened butter. Sprinkle bird all over with the additional kosher salt and black pepper. 

Roast uncovered at 350 degrees F for about 20 minutes per pound for unstuffed bird, or until the internal temperature reads 180 degrees F in the thickest part of the thigh. Start checking at least 30 minutes before anticipated finish time. If you pierce the thigh muscle with a large tined fork, the juices should run out clear and should not be reddish-pink in color. Baste the bird occasionally, about every 30 minutes or so, with the pan juices during cooking. 

Remove from the oven and transfer the bird to a cutting board to rest for a minimum of 10 minutes. While the bird is resting, make pan sauce. Place the roasting pan on the stove top and skim off any fat that has floated to the top. Ideally, use a fat separator and return the pan juices only back to the roasting pan, discarding the rest of the fat. Place the roasting pan over medium high heat and bring the juices to a boil, scraping the bottom of the pan to release browned bits on the bottom. Cook until the juices have reduced about half. Remove from the heat, stir in a bit of butter and swirl around until blended in. Rather make gravy? Click here for a gravy guideline or go straight to the giblet gravy. 

Cook's Notes: 

Turkey Aromatics: This recipe was written using a 7 pound hen, but applies to any size bird. If you are roasting a large turkey, simply add additional seasonings and butter as needed, but don't increase the garlic or lemon. Additional aromatics you can use with an unstuffed turkey include apple, onion, celery, including the leafy tops, bay leaves, fresh sprigs of rosemary, thyme or sage. I also highly recommend adding aromatics underneath the turkey. Add enough chicken broth to coat the bottom of the roasting pan, so that they don't burn. Put the rack in and put your turkey on top. 

Brining: If you have the time, prepare the bird for soaking in a brine 8 to 12 hours before you plan to roast it. A brine will help to produce a very moist and tender bird, however, you can also achieve this by carefully ing the internal temperature of your bird in the final 30 to 45 minutes of cooking and by not overcooking it also. Your bird should register 180 degrees F on the thickest part of the thigh when it is ready. It will also rest for at least ten minutes before you carve it, and will continue cooking during that time so you'll want to remove it from the oven just as it hits this temperature, or even slightly before since it will continue to cook for a bit after you remove it from the oven. Omit the salt in the cavity if you brine.  

Stuffing: If you are cooking a bird stuffed with dressing rather than the aromatics listed here, do not pack the stuffing in the cavity. Instead, heat the stuffing to warm it, and place it in the cavity of the bird loosely in order to allow room for expansion and for the heat to flow through. Use an instant read thermometer to check for doneness. The stuffing in the deepest, most central part of the stuffing, must reach a temperature of 165 degrees F. 



START RECIPE
a really great pot of chickpeas 
MAY 3, 2017 JUMP TO RECIPE, COMMENTS 
A side-effect of doing this cooking thing for 10+ years is that people seem to imagine I’m so sort of domestic diva, eating only homemade bread and milling my own grains and not just someone with an obsessive streak when it comes to making things exactly the way she wants them. Even though I’d love to live in some alternate universe where I’d always have time and energy to make my own, I’m unbothered by frozen breaded chicken things (erm, occasionally), tortellini, boxed stocks, and canned beans: the freezer almost always contains the first two (lunchbox heroes!) and the cabinets, the latter, which is why when friend told me a couple weeks ago kind of sotto voce, almost like a confession, the other day that she’d never cooked her own dried beans, I couldn’t even rouse myself to gasp in faux horreur. 


after soaking a very long time 
soaked and drained 

But, I’ve been thinking since about when I bother cooking dried beans and when I absolutely do not and for me, when the beans are one ingredient among many or even with hummus, canned beans suit my needs perfectly. At times when you really want beans to be the star, and I’m going to make the argument that these could and should be, if you can find the time, it’s usually not as much as you think. I was shocked to find my (purchased 15 months ago) dried chickpeas that I’d soaked a little over 24 hours, totally softened after 20 minutes of simmering time, although I’d consider closer to 1 hour the norm. The benefit to cooking beans from scratch is not just deeper flavor but that you get to cook other flavors all the way into the beans, not just add them at the end as an afterthought. 

ready to cook 
look at that foam! 
a really great pot of chickpeas 

And also: the broth. Bean cooking liquid is some of the most delicious brodo there is, especially enhanced with herbs, garlic, and more — promise you won’t dare dare drain it off. It alone could be the base of a soup, or my favorite way to eat chickpeas like this, with a splash of the liquid so it’s not quite soup or salad. But don’t stop there. Once you make a pot of really great chickpeas — here, we’re taking inspiration from Tuscan-style white beans but applying it to this meatier bean — I can think of at least eight ways to turn it into a meal, and if you combine multiple ideas (salsa verde and burrata, shown above: we added wilted spinach once, ahem, my tireless husband picked it up from the store on his way home), you have almost endless possibilities. 

chickpeas, salsa verde, burrata 

8 Things To Do With A Really Great Pot Of Chickpeas 
•	rewarm in in a little olive oil with some of the bean broth: wilt in a handful or two of greens 
•	stir in a spoonful or two of a tomato sauce 
•	finish it with a drizzle of olive oil and grated parmesan or pecorino 
•	finish it with salsa verde 
•	blend some to a smoother texture, add ditalini and a splash of cooking broth for a take on pasta e ceci 
•	put an egg on it 
•	put a burrata on it (can this be the new putaneggonit?) 
•	grill some olive oil-brushed bread, rub it with a raw garlic clove, ladle beans over 

Does it go without saying that you can also use the above as a way to doctor up a can of chickpeas? Just in case it does not, you absolutely can. If you’ve got time, take a couple cups of vegetable broth and simmer it with portion of the extras below (garlic, sage, peppercorns) until well-infused, about 15 to 20 minutes, then add canned, drained, and rinsed chickpeas and let them gently, barely simmer in the mixture for 10 to 15 minutes. 

PREVIOUSLY 
One year ago: Shaved Asparagus Frittata and Palm Springs Date Shake + Monkey Flip 
Two years ago: Potato Scallion and Kale Cakes, Salted Chocolate Chunk Cookies and Crispy Broccoli with Lemon and Garlic 
Three years ago: Lamb Meatballs with Feta and Lemon 
Four years ago: Yogurt Panna Cotta with Walnuts and Honey and Spring Vegetable Potstickers 
Five years ago: Classic Ice Cream Sandwiches and Cinnamon Toast French Toast 
Six years ago: Crispy Potato Roast and Sour Cream Cornbread with Aleppo 
Seven years ago: Classic Cobb Salad, Lime Yogurt Cake with Blackberry Sauce and Blue Cheese Scallion Drop Biscuits 
Eight years ago: Buttermilk Ice Cream and Black Bread 
Nine years ago: Carameilzed Shallots 
Ten years ago: Margarita Cookies and Tequila Lime Chicken 

And for the other side of the world: 
Six Months Ago: Broken Pasta with Pork Ragu and Roasted Cauliflower with Pumpkin Seeds, Lime and Brown Butter 
1.5 Years Ago: Baked Potatoes with Wild Mushroom Ragu, Twinkie Bundt and Oven Fries 
2.5 Years Ago: Homemade Harissa and Cauliflower Cheese 
3.5 Years Ago: Apple Slab Pie and Potato and Broccolini Frittata 
4.5 Years Ago: Apple Mosaic Tart with Salted Caramel and Butternut Squash Salad with Farro and Pepitas 

A Really Great Pot of Chickpeas 
SERVINGS: 4 TO 8 TIME: 30 MINUTES TO 2 HOURS, PLUS SOAKING 

Skip the parmesan rind if feeding strict vegetarians. 
I didn’t get to test this recipe in a slow-cooker, pressure-cooker, and/or InstaPot because I am just one human, heh, but you can absolutely make beans in all of the above. I’ll fill in specific cooking times as I try it out each way, or point to them if commenters are kind enough to let us know how long this takes in any of the above. 


1 pound dried chickpeas 
Water 
2 tablespoons coarse or kosher salt, divided 
2 fresh sage sprigs or 1 sage and 1 rosemary sprig 
4 to 5 cloves garlic, unpeeled but crushed 
1/4 teaspoon whole black peppercorns 
A parmesan rind (optional) 

One day or several hours before: Place dried chickpeas in a large bowl and cover with 8 cups water and 1 tablespoon kosher salt, and let soak for as much time as you have, ideally at least 4 hours and up to even a day or two in the fridge. The benefits are simple: The longer you soak them, the less time they take to cook. 
To cook: Drain chickpeas and add them to a large (ideally 5 quart) heavy pot with 12 fresh cups of water. Add another tablespoon (or more, you can taste the liquid to get it right) of kosher salt, sage, garlic, and peppercorns and bring mixture to a full boil over high heat. Skim any foam on top: with chickpeas, it’s significant and dramatic. Boil for 2 minutes then reduce heat to a low simmer, cover partially, and cook until chickpeas are firm-tender, as little as 25 to 30 minutes (what mine took after almost 30 hours of soaking, although I found this unusual) and up to 1 1/2 hours. Let cool in their broth. I usually fish out the garlic, sage, and peppercorns so they don’t get in the way but you can leave them in for extra-infusion. 

To use: See any of the ideas above, and use as many as you’d like in combination. A little tomato sauce and greens over grilled bread, perhaps? A little brothy with pasta, a swirl of olive oil and parmesan? Salsa verde and burrata? You have so much deliciousness ahead. 

To store: Store chickpeas in their cooking liquid in the fridge for up to one week. 

START RECIPE
artichoke, cranberry bean and arugula salad 
APRIL 5, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Sometimes I’m worried that I might be boring you guys. Yes, yes, being plagued by feelings of dullness and inadequacy, how very tired of me. But, let’s take some of the themes we have here: artichokes, beans, arugula, salad, bread and the most repetitive one of all: I ate something somewhere, and had to have it again ASAP so I tried to make it myself. Today, we’ve got all of them bundled into one. I try to say to myself, Deb, not everyone is infatuated by artichokes, arugula, beans and salads and every single way you can think of eating them either separately or together. I try to rationalize, although it’s not my strong suit. But then I imagine a world without people who get as excited as I do about artichokes! arugula! beans! and it makes me terrifically sad. Thus today I present to you: Artichoke, Cranberry Bean and Arugula Salad, or seriously the best thing I’ve gotten to eat twice in a week in way too long. 


artichokes, stunners 

We went out to dinner at really-you-must-go-there Dressler in Williamsburg on Saturday night with our most newly-married friends. Alex and Steve had leaden cocktails and I, well you know, I did that thing you do with your married female friends where you make sure they’ve ordered something with alcohol? Or you’ll start with the irresponsible rumor-mongering? Oh, I know this because it happens to me like every freaking day and people, there is always wine in my hand. We’re all caught up now? Onwards, then. 

artichokes 

I wasn’t kidding the sixteen times I’ve mentioned in the past that I am a) obsessed with artichokes, b) that they are my favorite food on earth and c) that I will order pretty much anything on a menu that involves even a smidgen of them, thus when I saw that there was a salad comprised of an artichoke, cranberry beans and arugula, I briefly wondered if I could just order one for an appetizer and run off into the sunset with another. I controlled my desires (mostly), difficult as it was. The salad was dreamy, and I did my best not to moan audibly as I consumed, and seriously, why had I not thought of this before? 

aritchoke preparation 

I fixed this last night. It was just my luck, really, after I’d whimpered and cried last week over the immaculate beauty of the artichokes MattBites had photographed. Why did my artichokes never, ever look like that? Why must I live on the wrong coast to truly be their Number One Fan? And then last night at the store, there they were, perfectly round and flawless, leafy orbs, looking especially pert after a 3,000+ mile trek. Clearly, this was a sign. 

artichoke preparation 

Now, I know preparing artichokes can be a little intimidating, and this dish had the extra twist of trimming them into a bowl-shape, which I will try to make as simple as possible for you to try yourself. Once you’ve gotten this done, and boiled them* for about a half-hour, you’re home free. I used some fancy-schmancy Italian imported cranberry beans from a jar: their plumpness adds a terrific texture to this dish, but go ahead and use your bean of choice. The dressing could not be simpler, as is it a thinned out version of the dipping sauce my mother always made when she cooked whole artichokes and my absolutely favorite flavor pairing with them. Toss the beans with it and fill the artichoke cavity: toss the arugula with it and spread it about, and that’s it. 

Dinner–with some cured meats, pickled vegetables and sliced baguette on a platter, and a glass of Gruner Veltliner, because, oh, why not–is served. It’s the perfect light but indulgent 9:30 p.m. answer to your earlier torture on the treadmill. Unfortunately, it does nothing to offset the suckiness that Lost insists upon being these days, but it will make it easier to tolerate. Really, we’re just skimming the surface of artichokes’ charms. 

aritichoke, cranberry bean and arugula salad 

* If you are as easily amused as I am, this is definitely going to be the best part. The artichoke hearts, you see, if you place them bowl-side down in the pot, bob around in the boiling water like those wind-up teeth at the dentist’s office, burping out little bits of water. Minutes and minutes of entertainment, people. 

Artichoke, Cranberry Bean and Arugula Salad 

2 of the largest, most globe-like artichokes you can find 
2 lemons 
A few cloves of garlic, smashed but left in their skins 
One can of cranberry beans, rinsed and drained 
A bundle of fresh arugula, washed and dried 
2 to 3 tablespoons mayonnaise 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Prepare your artichokes: Peel the toughest, smallest and greenest outer leaves off and discard them. Once you reach the first of the yellow leaves, of moderate thickness, you’re good. Leaving half to one full inch of the yellow leaves attached to the stem, cut the remainder off in one clean cut. Now, start scooping, with a small paring knife and a small spoon (a grapefruit one works great here). You want to remove all of the spindly inner leaves as well as all off the furry choke, while creating a bowl shape, using those truncated yellow leaves as sides. Rub half a lemon over every cut surface, so it doesn’t brown. Be generous. Now, as carefully as you can, peel all of the dark green skin from the stem, again rubbing each cut surface with the halved lemon. Trim the stem down to one inch or less, making sure that it is flat and that when turned upside-down, the artichoke can balance on the surface, again coating the surface with lemon. Repeat this process for the second artichoke. 

Bring a large pot of water to boil, adding a few glugs of plain vinegar, those garlic cloves and the lemons you’d used to coat the artichokes, first squeezing any remaining juice into the pot. If you have any old white wine, this is also an excellent flavor to impart in the artichokes. Boil the bowl-shaped artichoke hearts for about 25 to 35 minutes, or until they can be pierced easily with a fork. Drain them and set them aside. (These can be cooked a day or even two in advance, and reheated when you’re ready to make the salad.) 

Make your dressing: Whisk your mayonnaise with the juice of one lemon. You want a thin dressing. Season it with salt and pepper. 

Assemble your salad: Turn each artichoke upside-down on a plate so it stands on it’s truncated stem. Toss about 1/2 to 2/3 of a cup of beans with a spoonful or two of the dressing, and fill the artichoke cavity with them. Toss the arugula with more dressing, and arrange it over and around the artichoke. Season with more salt and pepper. Leave the extra dressing near you as you’ll probably want more for your artichoke heart. Eat with vigor. 

START RECIPE
baked chickpeas with pita chips and yogurt 
MARCH 24, 2015 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Nothing against barbecue-style baked beans, all tangy sauced and full of smoky burnt end drippings — hi summer, get here quick please — but I hardly see why navy beans get to have all of the fun. Where are the baked kidney beans, black-eyed peas and gigantes? Baking is a phenomenal way to cook dried beans and a great way to make something more complex of canned ones: when you start considering flavors, the sky, nay, the globe is the limit. I want these red beans slow-baked in a big casserole, scooped with tortilla chips. I want baked black beans heaped over tostones, braised white beans over Catalan-style tomato bread and I want what we had for dinner last night for the first time all over again, because it was perfect. 


soak your chickpeas, or use cannedcook some onions and garlicadd drained chickpeas, spices, zestmessy pitas for chips 

In an attempt to wean myself from my ongoing obsessive fixation on all things Tex-Mex — taco, tortilla, fajita and quesadilla — I didn’t get as far as it may seem. Sure, I spiked my baked chickpeas with Middle Eastern spices, but once I’d scooped them onto oven-crisped pita chips, dolloped it with lemon-tahini yogurt sauce, a finely chopped tomato-cucumber salad, well-toasted pine nuts, hot sauce and a fistful of chopped parsley, I realized I’d basically made Middle Eastern nachos. And I’m not even a little sorry.

mostly baked chickpeas 

a tomato-cucumber salad relish 
well-toasted pine nuts 
lemon tahini garlic yogurt 

Because this was one of our best dinners in ages — I’m struggling to control my gushing here, to be honest — and I’m so glad I made a full pound of beans, so we can have more for tonight. It was the kind of vegetarian meal (and vegan, too, if you omit the yogurt) that you totally forgot was, because it was incidental. It’s playful and fun to lay out many elements and let everyone pile them on as they see fit. And, because it was crunchy and fresh but also warm, fragrant and insanely filling, it felt like the perfect meal to bridge the heavy foods of winter and the brighter ones to come. More of this, please. 

baked chickpeas, a little tomato-cucumber salad relish 
baked chickpeas with pita chips and yogurt 

One year ago: Whole-Grain Cinnamon Swirl Bread 
Two years ago: Chocolate Hazelnut Macaroon Torte 
Three years ago: Soft Eggs with Buttery Herb Gruyere Toasts 
Four years ago: Oat and Maple Syrup Scones 
Five years ago: Bakewell Tart 
Six years ago: Cream Cheese Pound Cake and Strawberry Coulis 
Seven years ago: Caramel Walnut Upside-Down Banana Cake 
Eight years ago: Bulgur Salad with Chickpeas and Red Peppers 

And for the other side of the world: 
Six Months Ago: Latke Waffles 
1.5 Years Ago: Frico Grilled Cheese Sandwiches 
2.5 Years Ago: Crackly Banana Bread 
3.5 Years Ago: Roasted Tomato Soup with Broiled Cheddar 

Baked Chickpeas with Pita Chips and Yogurt 

My baked chickpea curiousity began many years ago, when Amanda Hesser shared a recipe in the New York Times from a Basque cookbook for baked garbanzos in 1999 (yes, I’m old). I’d forgotten about it until the Times relaunched their Cooking section last fall, but I was thrown by the need for saffron threads, which are expensive to procure and likely meant that most people wouldn’t make it. So, I got to thinking about what other cultures and flavors could be applied, and landed in the Middle East. In short, it’s not the first time I’ve gone all the way around to realize later I was making something that already existed, a dish known as fatteh. 

Note: To make this gluten-free, make your chips from gluten-free wraps or pitas. To make this vegan or dairy-free, make a lemon-tahini sauce, minus the yogurt. (It can be thinned with water, once you get the lemon level where you like it.) 

Serves 6 generously, if eaten nacho-style 

For the chickpeas 
1 pound dried chickpeas (garbanzo beans) or 4 15-ounce cans cooked chickpeas 
1/4 cup olive oil 
2 medium yellow onions, halved and thinly sliced 
3 cloves of garlic, peeled and minced 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
2 teaspoons ground coriander 
1 teaspoon paprika or sumac 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne, spoonful of harissa or a couple shakes of your favorite hot sauce (all adjusted to your heat preference) 
Few gratings fresh lemon zest 
2 teaspoons coarse sea or kosher salt (what I used for lightly salted broth, use more for unsalted, less for salted or canned beans) 
4 cups vegetable broth (for dried but soaked chickpeas), 1 1/2 cups vegetable broth (for cooked chickpeas) 
1 cup or more of water (will likely only need if beans weren’t pre-soaked) 

Fixings (all instructions below) 
Fresh pitas for pita chips 
Big handful of parsley (or a mix of parsley, cilantro and mint would be good too) 
1/4 cup pine nuts 
Tomato-cucumber “relish” salad 
Lemon-tahini yogurt or plain yogurt 
Additional paprika or sumac for sprinkling 

Soak dried chickpeas: Do you have to soak beans before you cook them? Nope, no, nope. But it will save a lot of cooking time, making this more of a one-hour weeknight meal. So, if you can plan ahead, soak them in an ample amount of water at room temperature for 24 hours. Don’t have 24 hours? I soaked mine for 3. I will make final cooking time estimations based on soaking times. Using canned beans? Skip this step entirely. 

Prepare your chickpeas: Heat oven to 375°F (190°C). In a large, heavy pot such as a Dutch oven (mine was 4 quarts, an ideal size), heat olive oil in the bottom of the pan over medium-high heat. Add onions and cook for 5 minutes, until they begin to soften. Add garlic and saute garlic and onions together for 3 to 4 minutes more, until everything is wilted. Add spices, zest and salt and cook with onions and garlic for one minute. Add drained soaked or canned chickpeas and: 

for already cooked or canned chickpeas: 1 1/2 cups broth 
for dried chickpeas that have been soaked: 4 cups broth 
for dried chickpeas that have not been soaked: 4 cups broth and 1 cup water to start 
Bring mixture to a boil and boil for one full minute. Place a lid on the pot and transfer it carefully to the oven. 

Bake your chickpeas: Please keep in mind that cooking beans isn’t a perfect science, and the amount absorbed if pre-soaked or not, the age and freshness of the chickpeas and even the softness of ones from a can are going to affect how much cooking time and liquid is needed. But, these estimates are fairly solid from my experience: 

for already cooked or canned chickpeas: bake for 15 minutes 
for dried chickpeas that had been soaked: bake for 45 minutes (estimate for 24 hours soaking) to 75 minutes (estimate for 2 to 3 hours soaking)
for dried chickpeas that had not been soaked: bake for 1 hour 30 minutes, but start checking in every 10 to 15 minutes from 50 minutes on to see if more liquid or cooking time will be needed 
Chickpeas are done when they’re firm-tender. 

Meanwhile, prep your fixings: While the chickpeas bake, prepare any fixings that caught your eye: 

To make pita chips from store-bought pitas: Separate the layers of pitas and cut into wedges. Arrange on a large baking sheet and brush lightly with 2 tablespoons olive oil and sprinkle with salt. Bake alongside chickpeas for 10 to 15 minutes, tossing occasionally to ensure that they toast evenly. Let cool. 

To toast pine nuts: Spread the nuts on a baking sheet and toast them in the oven while the chickpeas bake for 5 minutes, tossing once or twice as they like to toast unevenly. Let cool.

To make a tomato-cucumber “relish” salad: Chop a handful of whatever decent-looking tomatoes you can find in March, and 1 large or a few smaller cucumbers into very small pieces. Finely chop 1/4 a small red onion. Mix vegetables and onion in a bowl and dress to taste with olive oil, fresh lemon juice, salt and pepper. 

To make lemon-tahini yogurt: Whisk 6 tablespoons well-stirred tahini in the bottom of a bowl. Whisk in the juice of a whole lemon, 1 minced garlic clove and 4 tablespoons water until smooth. Whisk in 1 cup plain yogurt, about 1/4 at a time, until smooth. Season with salt. Adjust all levels to taste. 

Serve and let everyone assemble: We started with a handful of pita chips on our plan, then heaped on the baked chickpeas, dolloped on the yogurt sauce, tomato-cucumber “relish” salad, sprinkled everything with parsley and pine nuts and then a couple of us also shook on some hot sauce. Dig in. 

See also: The Middle Eastern food blog Desert Candy, which I’ve been reading for years but apparently missed the wrong month to fall behind, shared a recipe last week for “Nile Nachos” which use roasted instead of baked/braised chickpeas. I love this idea (and the fresh radishes on top): it feels snackier/lighter and a great fit for a party. I recommend patting canned chickpeas dry very well on paper towels before roasting them or they don’t get very crisp. I find that freshly-cooked beans, which tend to be firmer, crisp up better in the oven. 

START RECIPE
barley risotto with beans and greens 
JANUARY 7, 2010 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
So here’s a little eating-out confession: When we go out to restaurants, no matter how old-school posh or hot-new-It-chef-on-a-grungy-block, I rarely find myself moved to exclamation points over a piece of steak or a pasta dish: instead, it most of my ooh-ing and aah-ing is formed over the earnest piles of beans and grains and greens that form a bed for the main attraction. I’m always applauding the way a chef managed to get such flavorful beans, grains and even unloved greens, cooked so perfectly that I clean them out long before I stick my fork into the duck breast. I guess what I am trying to say is: A lot of people cook steak well. Making kale and wheat germ taste like nirvana itself is what really blows my mind. 


pearled barley 
red nightfall beans 

It’s also, sadly, the place where the gap between what I pay others to cook and what I whip up at home is the greatest. I miss those sauces — those puddles of concentrated buttery rich brothy flavor! I want to splash in them! — I miss all of the in between spaces on my plate. I vow to conquer that this year. Bring on the puddles! 

sad, old parmesan 

barley, onions, to deglaze with wine 

With this dish, I’m proud to say I’m getting there. I’ve been wanted to make a loose barley risotto for months, the kind that would invite other ingredients and interpretations in, but only now that’s it so cold and uninviting out that I’ve slowed down enough to get to some good old-fashioned pot-stirring. Barley doesn’t get as creamy as short-grained rice does when you cook it risotto-style, but seeing as I find a lot of risottos overly heavy and creamy, for me, this is a plus. Monkeying around (ahem!) by adding “stuff” to it was fun, and really, could be anything you had on hand, in my case, some beans I’d auditioned in the slow-cooker, and some escarole, because it had been a while since I’d had any. 

What we ended up was the kind of sauced-up treat I adore, and I won’t lie, the best part was that we didn’t have to leave Jacob to fend for himself in front of the TV with a can of formula again arrange childcare + get gussied + brave this arctic January just shell out generously for it. 

barley risotto with beans and greens 

Barley, previously: Mushroom and Barley Pie, Barley, Corn and Haricot Vert Salad, Beef, Leek and Barley Soup and my absolute favorite of the lot, Mediterranean Eggplant and Barley Salad 

Thank you. I’ve really had my head in the sand the last few months and while I blinked, won some awards — including Blogger You Would Most Like To Cook A Meal For You (aww) in the FoodBuzz Awards and just today, Best Home Cooking Blog in Apartment Therapy’s Homies awards — and did not have the good manners to thank you for cheering me on. This would be no fun at all without you, and I’m honored daily that you welcome my dreary speckled countertop and craftily-grammared ramblings into your kitchens. Thank you! 

One year ago: Fig and Walnut Biscotti 
Two years ago: Goulash 
Three years ago: Balthzar’s Cream of Mushroom Soup 

Barley Risotto with Beans and Greens 
Adapted generously from Food and Wine 

Be sure to use a low or no sodium broth: as the broth reduces and concentrates in flavor, a regular broth will yield a too-salty dish. I’ve learned the hard way many times! Only have a full salt broth or bouillon around? Swap some of the volume with water. 

And do play around with this dish — try different broths, such as beef or mushroom. Skip the beans, swap a cooked vegetable. Use your favorite greens and adjust the cooking time accordingly. Add a clove of garlic, use shallots or leeks instead of onion. Use romano instead of parmesan, dollop in some crème fraîche at the end: use red wine or skip the wine. I know it can sometimes be overwhelming to have too many options but the possibilities here are really endless, and a little extra tinkering could make a staple out of this dish for you. 

Serves 3 to 4 (most recipes would say 4: maybe we were just really hungry?) 

5 cups low-sodium vegetable or chicken stock 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
1 medium onion, cut into 1/4-inch dice 
1/4 teaspoon thyme 
1/2 cup white wine (optional) 
1 cup pearled barley (7 ounces) 
1 cup beans, canned or precooked (white would be great: I used some Red Nightfall Beans mostly because they were languishing in my cabinet) 
3 cups chopped escarole 
1/2 cup freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese, plus more for serving 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 

In a medium saucepan, bring the chicken stock to a simmer over moderately high heat. Reduce the heat to low and keep warm. 

In a large, deep skillet, heat the olive oil. Add the onion and thyme and cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until the onion is softened, about 6 minutes. Add the barley and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes. Add the wine if using and cook, stirring until absorbed, about one minute. Add 1 cup of the warm stock and cook, stirring, until nearly absorbed. Continue adding the stock 1/2 cup at a time in six additions — you’ll have a cup of stock left in the pot — stirring until it is nearly absorbed between additions. Most barley risottos are done when the barley is al dente and suspended in a thick, creamy sauce, about 35 minutes, however, I like to take this one a little “soupier” adding another half to one cup of stock. (This gives the beans something to drink up, and you a margin of error if you grains continue to absorb the stock once you think they are done.) Stir it in until the risotto is on the loose side, then add the beans and let them cook for a minute. Add the escarole and let it wilt and 
en cook for an additional minute. Stir in the 1/2 cup of Parmigiano-Reggiano and the butter and season with salt and pepper. Serve at once, passing more cheese at the table. 

Do ahead: Although it’s not generally ideal to reheat rice risottos, I actually enjoyed this barley one reheated. Keep the flame low, splash in some more broth if it seems thick and slowly warm the dish, stirring. Top with extra cheese. 

Bean cooking wonder! Cooked my beans in the slow-cooker — they were perfect. No presoaking, just put them in covered with 2 to 3 inches of water for 3 hours on high. (You may need up to 4 hours with larger beans.) I let them cool in their cooking water, which was by then quite flavorful. They were dreamy. 

START RECIPE
black bean confetti salad 
APRIL 23, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 

havana 
bar stools 
a week's view 

Sweet speckled sunshine, that was a good week. Never underestimate the power of blinding sun, square canvas umbrellas, swing barstools and ten thousand renditions of guantanamera to turn your mind back to tabula rasa. What did I do this week? Wish I could tell you, but every time I try to recall stretches of time, they skitter off like pieces of paper in a gusty breeze, just leaving me with small, unconnected bits, like the perfectly round, golf ball sized limes everywhere, sun so bright it demands your undivided attention, long piers that end in shade and a Havana-style eatery built from worn white wood, lounge chairs so comfortable, so well thought out you could lose a day–no a week–in one and not miss it at all. And so we did. And the only thing I cooked was grilled cheese sandwiches. 

see? 
this one got messy 

But I ate with glee. People, I love beans. I mean, really really love them and pretty much any day I get to eat them is one step up from the days I do not. Isn’t it great to that some things can be so perfectly simple? In Mexico, with no effort, you can eat beans at least twice a day and never did I tire of them. Never were they not the first thing I dove my fork into on the plate. You’d think after several mornings of huevos rancheros and seven dinners of small, shredded meat soft tacos it’d all get old, but it did not. And now I’m home — miraculously, with sunny days in tow — and still I long for these flavors. 

mango margarita 
teeny tiny limes 

So, when Jocelyn, my blog-sitter extraordinaire–seriously, how much fun is she?–invited us over for a rooftop barbeque this afternoon, it took me about ten seconds to decide that if I had to go a whole day without beans, vacation might actually be over, and vacation cannot actually be over, I simply will not have it, don’t make me throw a temper tantrum because, really, it’s a sure thing that I won’t elicit any sympathy from anyoneÃ¢â‚¬Â¦ and so I made a black bean confetti salad with a cumin-lime vinaigrette (and salsa fresca, because I couldn’t resist) and we scooped it onto tortilla chips as the sun set behind Manhattan and it was delicious and vacation did not end yet. But I hear it will soon, so excuse me while I go hide for a while and don’t mind that margarita glass on the nightstand. I was just a little thirsty. 

two things to scoop 
black bean confetti salad 

[More vacation pictures over here.] 

Black Bean Confetti Salad 

This works equally well as a small salad–even tossed with salad greens for more bulk–or alongside salsa fresca for scooping up with a tortilla chip. 

2 15-ounce cans black beans, drained and well-rinsed 
4 bell peppers, a mix of colors, chopped into a small dice 
1/2 super-large or 1 medium white onion, chopped into a small dice 
Juice of one lime 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
1 fresh chile, very thinly sliced or finely chopped or hot sauce, to taste 
Optional: If you’re the kind of person who loves cilantro, it’s a great match for this salad. 

Mix beans, bell peppers and white onion in a large bowl. In a separate, smaller bowl, whisk remaining ingredients into a vinaigrette. Ideally, you’ll have a 1/2 cup of dressing. Pour it over the bean mixture, toss it well and adjust seasonings to taste. 

START RECIPE
black bean pumpkin soup 
NOVEMBER 7, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I know this sounds like the tiniest of triumphs in a world of people who have respectable accomplishments to be proud of, but nonetheless, it brings me great pleasure to announce that I have found a pumpkin soup that meets my approval. 

Yes, I know, who talks about pumpkin soup in November? It seems like strictly an October affair. Pumpkins crowd the markets, and the people gather round with an evil glint in their eyes, eager to carve them up and roast their innards, mwa-ha-ha. You can barely turn your head without finding another half dozen pumpkin recipes, and oh, I know, I’ve spread my share around. 


Alex and I bought three smallish pumpkins to carve this year, but the weeks leading up to Halloween were chaotic and we never got to them. Feeling guilty that they were about to go to waste, I roasted and pureed one and a half of them (and stupidly deleted the pictures before, uh, downloading them from the camera), before deciding it was an absolutely excessive amount of work and entirely not worth it. I hear everyone goes through this same process once in their lives. 

onions garlic shallotsfresh pumpkin pureehamblack beans 

Nonetheless, I have cups and cups of puree, and I decided it time to find a pumpkin soup I can actually get along with. Your see, I pick on a good lot of them. I don’t like them sweet. I don’t like them with cinnamon or warm spices. I don’t like them with cream. I don’t like them too smooth and I especially don’t like them boring, like warmed pumpkin milk. Suffice it to say, I don’t eat a lot of pumpkin soup. 

But this is about to change. This soup is loud. Beefy, spicy, smoky, textured and complex, ten times better than I even knew pumpkin soup could be. It has no cream. It is thickened by coarsely-pureed black beans. The pumpkin puree is just one star in an ensemble cast. 

With a salad and a crusty piece of bread, it is substantial enough to be a meal, and I cannot wait to eat it again tomorrow, which is actually somewhat inconvenient, considering the whole new recipe every day thang this month. Fear not, though. I have something else up my sleeve, but you knew that. Don’t I always? 



Accompaniment: Elise’s brined and baked pumpkin seeds, which will be my new go-to recipe 

One year ago: When the Stars Make You Drool 

Black Bean Pumpkin Soup 
Gourmet, November 1996 

Yield: 9 cups 

Three 15 1/2 ounce cans black beans (about 4 1/2 cups), rinsed and drained 
1 cup drained canned tomatoes, chopped 
1 1/4 cups chopped onion 
1/2 cup minced shallot 
4 garlic cloves minced 
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter 
4 cups beef broth 
a 16-ounce can pumpkin puree (about 1 1/2 cups) 
1/2 cup dry Sherry 
1/2 pound cooked ham, cut into 1/8-inch dice 
3 to 4 tablespoons Sherry vinegar 

Garnish: sour cream and coarsely chopped lightly toasted pumpkin seeds 

In a food processor coarsely puree beans and tomatoes. 

In a 6-quart heavy kettle cook onion, shallot, garlic, cumin, salt, and pepper in butter over moderate heat, stirring, until onion is softened and beginning to brown. Stir in bean puree. Stir in broth, pumpkin, and Sherry until combined and simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, 25 minutes, or until thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. 

Just before serving, add ham and vinegar and simmer soup, stirring, until heated through. Season soup with salt and pepper. 

Serve soup garnished with sour cream and toasted pumpkin seeds. 

START RECIPE
black bean soup + toasted cumin seed crema 
JANUARY 12, 2010 JUMP TO RECIPE, COMMENTS 
So, I told you about the brisket. Or, the way we talk about it, thhhuuuuh brisssssket, it’s deliciousness making our syllables stretch out melodramatically. We pulled it into tacos with slaw and pickled onions and it was a great end to a great year. But I bet I know what you’ve been wondering since then, “But no appetizer?” Well, let this question vex your brain no longer: we had soup. (Jacob, however, got into the margaritas. Again.) 


dried black beans 
red onions 

My friend Jocelyn made a wonderful black bean soup and she topped it with a toasted cumin seed crema and I just about died, the crema was so good. I mean, the soup was delicious but the crema was one of those toppings that was in lock-step with the soup: the richest, creamiest, smokiest accent to a spicy, hearty soup. Since I’ve been slow cooker obsessed since that very day, I vowed to make a version entirely in my new BFF, and to top it with that toasted cumin seed cream. Frankly, the soup is just an excuse to get to it. 

onions, beans, peppers and garlic 

peppers and onion 

Or it would have been if that, too, hadn’t also ended up being ridiculously good. Have I told you how awesome the slow cooker is for resuscitating dried beans? There’s nothing better, period. I’ve always loved eating beans but the inconsistent and generally lackluster quality of canned beans frustrated me and the patience required to simmer something for hours on the stove eluded me. And now, with no presoaking, no simmering, just tossing cold dried beans in the slow cooker for just shy of three hours and they are perfection itself: bean nirvana. Throw in chipotle, peppers, garlic, onions and a healthy dose of cumin and you too can have this unbelievable soup from the tiniest effort. 

black bean soup 

One year ago: Almond Vanilla Rice Pudding 
Two years ago: Crunchy Baked Pork Chops 
Three years ago: Panakes, English Muffins and a Salade Lyonnaise 

Black Bean Soup with Chipotle and Toasted Cumin Seed Crème Fraîche 
SERVINGS: 6 AS A MAINSOURCE: SOUP ADAPTED FROM BON APPETIT AND TOPPING FROM BOBBY FLAY 

We always finish this soup, the way. Every last serving. It’s just that magical, I tell you. 
Note: The original recipe calls for 6 hours in a slow-cooker. Mine was done at 2 hours 45 minutes. In hindsight, my slow-cooker runs hotter than normal (closer to a low simmer on the stove). For most people who have commented, 6 hours was just right, so I’ve written it as so. 

In 2017, I I added InstantPot/Electric pressure cooker directions as well as long-overdue stovetop directions. It doesn’t matter how you make this, only that you do. For the stovetop, if you want to make it faster, you can soak the beans overnight in the 7 cups of water and I like to salt the at this point too. Add the soaked beans and all the remaining water to the stock pot when you would add the unsoaked beans and water: this often reduces the simmering time to 45 minutes, but your mileage will vary. 

These days, we often serve it “taco”-style for extra kid-friendliness: baked tortilla chips, sometimes pickled onions and sliced avocado garnishes and always the toasted cumin seed sour cream/creme fraiche, plus extra hot sauce for us. The most recent time I made this, I used the leftovers, which had thickened a bit more in the fridge, as a topping for shredded chicken tacos a couple nights later. 

Don’t have chipotle en adobo? I was out the last time I made this and used instead a teaspoon or two of chipotle powder (close in taste to hot smoked paprika) plus a dollop of tomato paste instead.


FOR THE SOUP 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
2 medium-size red onions, chopped 
1 medium-size red bell pepper, chopped 
1 medium-size green bell pepper, chopped 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
4 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 16-ounce package dried black beans 
1 tablespoon chopped chipotle chiles from a can (this gives it a solid kick, dial back if you are wary) 
7 cups water 
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 
2 teaspoons coarse kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
TO FINISH 
1 tablespoon whole cumin seeds 
1 cup Mexican crema or crème fraîche (or make your own crema, make your own crème fraîche, or swap sour cream or yogurt, for a close-enough taste) 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 

Make the soup on the stove: Heat olive oil in the bottom of a 5-quart or larger Dutch oven or stock pot over medium-high heat. Add onions and both bell peppers and sauté until beginning to brown, about eight minutes. Add garlic and cumin: stir one minute. Add beans and chipotles, then 7 cups water. Bring to a full boil, boil for 1 minute, then reduce heat to a gentle simmer, partially cover pot, and cook until beans have softened, about 2 to 3 hours. (These times can vary a lot depending on the age of the beans and kind of water.) 
Make the soup in a slow-cooker: Heat olive oil in large skillet over medium-high heat. Add onions and both bell peppers and sauté until beginning to brown, about eight minutes. Add garlic and cumin: stir one minute. Transfer mixture to 6-quart slow cooker. Add beans and chipotles, then 7 cups hot water. Cover and cook on high until beans are very tender, about 6 hours. [But see note up top because mine finish sooner, although most others have not.] 

Make the soup in an InstantPot or electric pressure cooker: Heat olive oil in the bottom of your pressure cooker on the sauté function. Add onions and both bell peppers and sauté until beginning to brown, about eight minutes. Add garlic and cumin: stir one minute. Add beans and chipotles, then 7 cups hot water. Cover, locking lid and closing steam valve. Cook at high pressure on the manual setting for 30 minutes. If you have time, let the pressure release naturally. I didn’t have a lot of time, and let it release naturally for 10 to 15 minutes, then manually the rest of the way. 

While it cooks, make the topping: Place the cumin in a small sauté pan over medium heat. Toast until lightly golden brown. Place in spice grinder or mortar and pestle and grind until coarse. Stir it into the cream and season with salt and pepper, to taste. 

All cooking methods: Transfer two cups bean mixture to blender: puree until smooth, then return the puree to remaining soup in slow cooker. Or, you can use an immersion blender to partially blend the soup right where you’ve cooked it. Stir in lime juice, salt, and pepper. Adjust seasonings to taste: we found we needed more salt. Ladle soup into bowls. Spoon dollop of toasted cumin seed cream (below) over each bowl and serve. 

Do ahead: This soup keeps great in the fridge, and even thickens a bit. In a good way!

START RECIPE
bulgur salad with chickpeas and red peppers 
MARCH 21, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
One thing I have heard a lot of since I launched this site but six months ago is “I just don’t know how you find all that time to cook.” And while my typical response is that “Oh, well I don’t have a life so that makes it really easy,” and I’m only a little bit joking — my office is 13 blocks from my apartment, I rarely work past 6:30 p.m., I tend to wake up hours before my husband on the weekends, eager to fiddle with recipes that would otherwise be too time-consuming, and I don’t have the energy or the liver to go out many nights a week anymore — the truth is that aside from making some fresh pasta with about two pounds of wild mushrooms two Sundays ago, I haven’t cooked dinner for us in weeks. And I hate it. 


You know the song: gym, errands, dinners and drinks and too many nights of getting home with no energy or, frankly, ingredients to start anything but pasta with butter and garlic, delicious but probably not the best bang for your caloric buck. If you are what you eat, I should be about 50 percent steamed vegetable dumplings, 30 percent black bean soup, 10 percent tofu pad Thai and an equal part mushroom, leek and goat cheese crepe by now, and while all of these things are excellent examples of the range of auto-dial food available in my part of the island, it does not mean that they are met with any less groaning as we pour through white container after container, creating a hideous amount of both waste and food ennui. Sure, things do get prepared in the kitchen — a biga at 11 p.m. on a Saturday, a soda bread at 10 on a Thursday, a cake on a Saturday morning — but nothing before 9 p.m., or you know, pretty much the point-of-no-return to start home cooked weekday dinners. 

My apologies: I really hadn’t meant to bring on the tiny violins, I just had to vent the level of frustration I have being kept from the daily meditation of chopping salad ingredients, whisking dressings and preparing the kind of low-fuss, guilt-free food we all deserve on a Tuesday night. Though I had three errands to run last night and Alex has a work-related dinner, I swore that even if I ate at 10 p.m., the meal would be by my own hand. And for once, I kept this promise. 

As you might have noticed through last week’s barley salad, I’m trying to wean us off the couscous, not because we don’t love it, I’ve just started to wonder why it has become our go-to grain when there’s such a wider range of textures, flavors and nutrients out there. Sure, couscous can be prepared in about 5 minutes flat, but soaking this fine-grained bulgur for all of twenty while I chopped the other salad ingredients doesn’t exactly make it prohibitively time-consuming for a tightly-scheduled evening. 

I’ve actually made this salad before, probably over a year ago, but either I’m a total spice pansy, my cayenne is hotter than your cayenne (cha cha cha) or a half-teaspoon is really an assaulting amount for this quantity of salad but I found it aggressively over-spiced and actually inedible. (Alex, The Spice Junkie, loved it.) This time I used a 1/4 teaspoon and found it to have a more harmonious kick. I also added a handful of quartered yellow cherry tomatoes and a finely chopped small red onion, because no recipe is the boss of me (nya nya). One toasted pita and a few leaves of Bibb lettuce later, I had the whole thing finished and ready to eat in time to  Edward Scissorhands! Wow, it’s been a while. He snipped (bouffants), I sipped (wine) and reveled in a plastic takeout container free evening at last. I believe we call that a good night around here. 

oh, and wine 

Bulgur Salad with Chickpeas, Roasted Red Peppers and Spiced Cumin Dressing 
Adapted from A Year in a Vegetarian Kitchen 

Serves 4 as a main course. 

1 1/2 cups fine-grain bulgur 
3 cups boiling water 
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
1 teaspoon honey 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
Salt 
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
1 can chickpeas, rinsed and drained 
6 ounces drained jarred roasted red peppers, diced (about 1 cup) 
1/2 cup quartered yellow cherry tomatoes 
1 small red onion, finely chopped (to reduce its bite, you can soak it and then squeeze it out with the bulgur for some or all of the absorption time) 
1/4 cup minced fresh parsley leaves 
1 medium head Bibb lettuce, leaves separated 
4 pita breads, warmed and cut into wedges 

1. Place the bulgur in a large bowl. Add the boiling water and set aside, stirring occasionally, until the bulgur has softened, 15 to 20 minutes. Drain the bulgur, shaking the strainer and gently pressing out excess moisture. Return the bulgur to the bowl.

2. Meanwhile, whisk the lemon juice, honey, cumin, cayenne, and 1/2 teaspoon salt together in a small bowl. Whisk in the oil until the dressing is smooth.

3. Add the chickpeas, roasted peppers, tomatoes, red onion and parsley to the bowl with the drained bulgur and stir to combine. Drizzle the dressing over the bulgur mixture and toss to combine.

4. Line each individual plate with several lettuce leaves. Mound some bulgur salad over the lettuce and tuck some pita wedges into the salad at several places around the plate. Serve.

START RECIPE
burrata with lentils and basil vinaigrette 
AUGUST 16, 2016 JUMP TO RECIPE, COMMENTS 
Although I will happily eat burrata — that lush mozzarella-on-the-outside, creamy-ricotta-center cheese from Puglia’s Razza Podolica’s cows by way of skilled craftsmen — with a knife and fork, quartered on a plate, drizzled with olive oil and balsamic, flaky sea and pepper with or without a few tiny tomatoes all around and sometimes even some basil from this day until the end of days and never want for anything else, two small things about this will forever plague me: this is an expensive undertaking and when I’m done, I will still probably be hungry for dinner. 


what you'll need 

What’s a girl to do when she likes fancy things but doesn’t have the trust fund to support it? I may approach the subject jokingly, but as any of us who has attempted grocery shopping on a budget knows, the struggle is real. Do you save your favorite ingredients for special occasions? Do you save it for cooking-for-one nights, to limit the financial hit of it all? My way is instead to try to stretch things, forever looking for ways to turn luxurious appetizers like this into a full, actually sating, meal. 

little green lentils 
basil vinaigrette-ing 

If burrata — which, by the way, means “buttered,” in case you weren’t yet convinced you needed it in your life — is such a star, why not let it carry a dish? I found my a-ha moment in the Polpo cookbook from the eponymous London restaurant I fell in love with a few years ago. (I talk about it more, by way of spinach pizzettes, over here.) Here, atop an excellent warm lentil and vegetable salad, the burrata is treated the way a poached egg would be elsewhere, allowed to break open and spill out, enriching everything around it. I took a few liberties with the recipe: I merged the basil oil and mustard vinaigrette into one thing, because who wants to make two dressing on a weekday night and I swapped the carrots and celery for the zucchini that’s everywhere right now, but kept what I felt was the essential part: luxury in a wholesome weeknight format. 

burrata with lentils and basil vinaigrette00 

PREVIOUSLY 
One year ago: Raspberry Crushed Ice 
Two years ago: Raspberry Swirl Cheesecake 
Three years ago: Kale Salad with Pecorino and Walnuts 
Four years ago: My Favorite Brownies 
Five years ago: Tomato Salad with Crushed Croutons 
Six years ago: Sweet Corn Pancakes 
Seven years ago: Lobster Rolls and Espresso Chiffon Cake with Fudge Frosting 
Eight years ago: Chocolate Peanut Butter Cake 
Nine years ago: Plum Almond Tart 

And for the other side of the world: 
Six Months Ago: Broccoli Melts 
1.5 Years Ago: Perfect Corn Muffins 
2.5 Years Ago: Chocolate Peanut Butter Cheesecake 
3.5 Years Ago: Italian Stuffed Cabbage 
4.5 Years Ago: Lasagna Bolognese 

Burrata with Lentils and Basil Vinaigrette 
SERVINGS: 6 TIME: 45 MINUTES 
As discussed, burrata can be a bit of an investment. This dish is stunning, absolutely luxurious with 2 large 8-ounce balls of burrata over it (it also makes a 6 meal-sized portions: I show it up top with 1/2 the lentil portion and about 5 ounces burrata) but should the price of this give you a small panic, you can also use half as much for a still lovely but less posh meal. 
If you think you’re not a lentil person, have you tried lentils de puy? Tiny, almost nutty in flavor and keeping intact when cooked, they’re so wonderful in salads, warm and cold, I’m convinced that they can convert anyone. Sure, they’re a household staple in France, but here they can be found at a lot of grocery stores or ordered online. 

LENTILS 
1 1/2 cups dried lentils de puy or other small green lentils 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
2 medium zucchinis (about 6 ounces each), diced 
1 small or 1/2 medium onion, diced 
Leaves from 3 fresh sprigs thyme 
2 small or 1 large garlic cloves, minced 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
BASIL VINAIGRETTE 
1 1/4 cups fresh basil leaves 
2 teaspoons smooth Dijon mustard, plus more to taste 
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons red or white wine vinegar 
6 tablespoons olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
ASSEMBLY 
2 large balls of burrata (or 4 smaller ones), at room temperature (see Note up top) 
Sea salt and more black pepper 
A few small basil leaves for garnish 
Cook lentils: Pick over and rinse lentils. Place them in a medium saucepan and cover with 3 inches of cold water, seasoned well with salt. Simmer the lentils over medium heat for 25 to 30 minutes, until firm-tender. Drain and set aside. 
Meanwhile, make vinaigrette: Blend basil, mustard and vinegar together in a food processor. With machine running, drizzle in olive oil in a thin stream. Season well with salt and black pepper. You’ll need to scrape the machine down a few times to get all of the leaves minced. No food processor? Very finely mince leaves on a cutting board with a sharp knife. Place in medium bowl and whisk with mustard and vinegar. Drizzle in olive oil in a thin stream, whisking the whole time. Season well with salt and pepper. 

In a large frying pan, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium heat. Add zucchini, onion, thyme, salt and pepper and cooking, stirring frequently, until softened and just barely picking up color, about 9 minutes. Add garlic and cook 1 minute more. Add cooked lentils back to pan and stir to mix and re-warm: you can add a splash of water if they’re sticking. Adjust seasonings to taste. 

Assemble: Transfer lentil-vegetable mixture to a large, wide serving bowl and stir in 2/3 of vinaigrette. Place intact* burratas on top and then cut into quarters with a sharp knife so you don’t miss any of the wonderful stuff that spills out. The warmth of the lentils will melt it further. Drizzle with a little extra vinaigrette, a few pinches of sea salt and a couple extra grinds of black pepper. Scatter basil leaves over and dig in. 

(* Unless you’re me and tripped walking home from errands yesterday because you were carrying too much and smashed blueberries, cherries, heirloom tomatoes and burratas and now I am grumpy despite having a Muppet bandaid on each knee.) 

START RECIPE
carrot soup with tahini and crisped chickpeas 
JANUARY 3, 2013 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
It’s the first week of January, so I am going to go out on a limb and guess that no fewer than 52 percent of you are gnawing on a carrot stick right now. If you’re not gnawing on a carrot stick right now, you probably have some within reach of you. If they’re not within reach of you, they’re in your fridge, because you, like most of us, are more ambitious when it comes to grocery lists than you might be when it’s time to consume said groceries. And if they’re not in your fridge, you might have them on your mind, nagging at you. Early January is like that. (Late January is all about rich comfort foods. Trust me.) 


it's january, so there are carrots 
weighing in 

I set off 2012 on this site with a carrot soup, and it’s not accidental that I’m doing the same in 2013. You see, one of the sadder facts about me is that I’m plagued with indecision about everything, from bangs to coffee tables to soups, and before you ended up reading about Carrot Soup with Miso and Sesame and maybe even some pickled scallions, I had at least three ideas for carrot soup spinning in my head and it likely took me a solid week with immeasurable hemming and hawing to even settle on the miso version first. This carrot tahini soup was first runner up last year, but it’s clear to me, eating my first bowl of this right now, this was a mistake. The inspiration is one of my favorite snacks (sadly, not shared by my assistant, yet), carrot sticks dipped in hummus* and here I tried to deconstruct the two things only to reconstruct them better. 

diced the carrots, but you can slice them 

can't be an SK recipe w/out a photo of peelings 
carrot, onion, garlic, spices, browninglemon juicing, and an impulse buy 
rancho gordo chickpeas, patting dry 
crisped chickpeas, lemon-tahini 

Amazingly, both carrot soups originate from the same place, which is that I don’t much care for it. And I know what you’re thinking: “Three carrot soups? When you barely like one? Weirdo!” But, I’d argue, pickiness, namely mine, needn’t be so much a roadblock but a source of inspiration. I enjoy finding ways I can make things I once believed to be not my thing very much my thing. If I find carrot soup is vaguely sweet and flat, how can I make it complex and textured and bright? Last year it was miso, sesame and pickled scallions. This year it is even better: some smoky cumin, coriander and pepper flakes sauteed with the soup vegetables, a swirl of lemon-tahini to finish, loads of crispy chickpeas as croutons. It’s all sorts of January-ness in a bowl — vegetarian, nay, vegan, antioxidants! alpha-carotene! beta-carotene! potassium! Guys, it’s like one spoonful of quinoa short of Food Blog Deity status. But — snore! — really, it’s just good. January or not, that’s the only good reason I can think of to eat 
thing. 

carrot soup, tahini, crisp chickpeas 
carrot soup with tahini and crisped chickpeas 

* Hummus? I was thinking about doing an updated post on hummus, with a different technique, but only if there’s interest. Update: As you wish, Ethereally Smooth Hummus! 

More: Carrots and soups, previously. 

One year ago: Carrot Soup with Miso and Sesame 
Two years ago: Chard and White Bean Stew 
Three years ago: Walnut Pesto, Spicy Caramel Popcorn and Southwestern Pulled Brisket 
Four years ago: Veselka’s Cabbage Soup, Spelt Everything Crackers, Feta Salsa, Zuni Cafe’s Roast Chicken and Bread Salad, Cranberry Vanilla Coffee Cake, Sausage Stuffed Potatoes + Green Salad 
Five years ago: Caramel Cake, 96 Favorites and Viennese Cucumber Salad 
Six years ago: Boozy Baked French Toast, Parmesan Black Pepper Biscotti, Coq au Vin 

Carrot Soup with Lemon, Tahini and Crisped Chickpeas 

My soup vice is because I’ve already confessed to finding it a little dull, that I overcompensate with add-ins. Here, there’s a dollop (lemon-tahini), a crouton (cumin-crisped chickpeas, which might sound familiar as they’re also here), wedges of toasted pitas (brushed with olive oil, sprinkled with za’atar) and a garnish (parsley). If you’re not me, this might seem like overkill, in which case you should definitely just use the ones you find the most interesting. 

Serves 4, generously or 6, petitely 

Soup 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil 
2 pounds (905 grams) carrots, peeled, diced or thinly sliced 
1 large onion, finely chopped 
4 regular or 6 small garlic cloves, peeled and smashed 
1/4 teaspoon ground coriander 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon table salt, plus more if needed 
Pinch of Aleppo pepper or red pepper flakes 
4 cups (945 ml) vegetable broth 

Crisped chickpeas 
1 3/4 cups cooked chickpeas, or 1 15-ounce (425-gram) can, drained, patted dry on paper towels 
1 generous tablespoon (15 ml or so) olive oil 
1/2 teaspoon coarse salt 
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 

Lemon-tahini dollop 
3 tablespoons (25 grams) tahini paste 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) lemon juice 
Pinch or two of salt 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) water 

Pita wedges, garnish 
A few large pitas, cut into 8 wedges 
Olive oil, to brush pitas 
Za’atar (a Middle Eastern spice-herb blend) or sesame seeds and sea salt to sprinkle 
2 tablespoons flat-leaf parsley, coarsely chopped 

Heat two tablespoons olive oil in heavy large pot over medium heat. Add carrots, onion, garlic, coriander, cumin, salt and pepper flakes and sauté until they begin to brown, about 15 minutes. 

Meanwhile, heat your oven to 425 degrees F. Toss chickpeas with one tablespoon olive oil, salt and cumin until they’re all coated. Spread them on a baking sheet or pan and roast them in the oven until they’re browned and crisp. This can take anywhere from 10 to 20 minutes, depending on the size and firmness of your chickpeas. Toss them occasionally to make sure they’re toasting evenly. 

Once vegetables have begun to brown, add broth, using it to scrape up any bits stuck to the bottom of the pot. Cover pot with lid and simmer until carrots are tender, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes. 

Meanwhile, in a small dish, whisk together tahini, lemon juice, salt and water until smooth with a yogurt-like consistency. If more liquid is needed to thin it, you can add more lemon juice or water, a spoonful at a time, until you get your desired consistency. 

Spread pita wedges on a second baking sheet and brush lightly with olive oil. Sprinkle with za’atar or a combination of sea salt and sesame seeds and toast in oven with chickpeas until brown at edges, about 5 minutes. 

Puree soup in a blender or with an immersion blender until smooth. Ladle into bowls. Dollop each with lemon-tahini, sprinkle with crisped chickpeas and garnish with chopped parsley. Serve with pita wedges. Forget January, you’d eat this anytime. Right? 

START RECIPE
cauliflower, bean and feta salad 
APRIL 23, 2008 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
As Cathy so eloquently navigates on her site, cooking in New York City isn’t exactly a given/mandatory act, or certainly not the way it would be in a place that doesn’t have umpteen restaurant and take-out options in a four block radius. It very much a choice, something one opts to do out of interest in choosing what goes into their mouths in a place that makes it really easy to forgo this choice. Honestly, it’s not uncommon to look at an apartment in New York City and exclaim “Awesome! They just renovated the kitchen!” only to learn that new cabinets and appliances were put in two tenants ago, but neither got to turning on the oven. (Ahem.) 


roasted flowerets 

Despite running this site, enjoying cooking and being naturally curious about new recipes and trying ingredient combinations, it has never been cooking-or-bust for me. If I’m tired or uninspired, I’ve got no issue ordering a savory crepe from down the street or even a grilled cheese sandwich from one of the many diners around. I welcome the lack of dishes at the end of the evening (even while I look guiltily at all of the waste created from take-out containers.) It’s because of this that on the occasion that I make something I’m not head-over-heels in love with, it’s that much more insult to injury. I could have eaten anything in the world for dinner, but instead, I’m pushing this salad around my plate after lugging groceries up the stairs and nearly an hour of prep. 

rosemary olive oil 

Which is not, of course, to say that this salad is not good. In fact, it’s quite good and well, I might even make it again. But someone it didn’t hit the spot for me last week, and I’ve been procrastinating about sharing it with you since. All of this is silly, because it was really just a few degrees off from what I wanted. The lemon level in the recipe I adapted it from was caustically high, and it did need a little more crunch than I gave it–remembering the last cauliflower dish so fondly, I’m thinking some toasted walnuts would be wonderful. 

The problem is that this was one of three things I’ve made in the past week that just didn’t do it for me–and certainly didn’t seem to warrant the dishes they created. So, while I take a day to reconsider what I really want to cook for dinner next time, I’m thinking this is a perfect time to throw in another Q&A. We’ve got volumes I, II and III in the archives, but the last one was nearly 6 months ago and surely you have some burning questions you want me to answer. Oh, you want me to start? Yes, these are my real freckles. Scary, huh? 

roasted cauliflower salad 

One year ago: Black Bean Confetti Salad 

Cauliflower, Kidney Bean and Feta Salad 
Adapted very loosely from Bon Appetit, January 2007 

Makes 6 servings 

1/3 cup + 3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 teaspoon minced fresh rosemary 

2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 

1 medium head of cauliflower, trimmed, cut into small florets (about 3 cups) 
1 (15-ounce) can kidney beans, drained 
2 large heads of Belgian endive, trimmed, halved lengthwise, then thinly sliced crosswise 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh chives 
2 teaspoons chopped fresh parsley 
1/2 cup crumbled feta cheese (about 3 ounces) 
1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts, toasted 

Preheat oven to 400°F. Toss cauliflower florets with 3 tablespoons olive oil and season well with salt and pepper. Spread on a baking sheet and roast until edges are dark and caramelized, about 20 to 25 minutes, stirring once or twice. 

While cauliflower is roasting, combine remaining 1/3 cup olive oil and rosemary in small saucepan. Stir over medium heat just until fragrant, about 1 minute. Cool. 

Whisk lemon juice, vinegar, lemon peel, salt, and pepper in small bowl. Combine roasted, still warm cauliflower, beans, endive, chives, parsley, walnuts and rosemary oil in medium bowl: toss. Mix in cheese. Add lemon juice mixture and toss to coat. Season salad with salt and pepper. 

START RECIPE
chana masala 
FEBRUARY 1, 2010 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
My latest snap of cravings for Indian food hit a couple weeks ago, and because I haven’t learned anything over my two stints in the East Village, we ordered in from a restaurant on 6th Street and received puddles of oily, listless and weakly spiced curries that we dragged our way through only to be rewarded with bellyaches. Also, regret. I have an archive of Indian recipes I make several times a year, that I crave like clockwork as soon as we hit a cold snap and never disappoint, a cabinet full of robust rust and mustard-colored powders and seeds and yet I let someone else put lackluster chana masala in our bellies. 


finely chopped onion 
canned whole tomatoes 

I’ve made a slew of chana masalas — a Northern Indian chickpea stew with tomatoes — but none have made their way to you because while they’ve all been edible, with bowls licked clean as there are exactly no intersections of chickpeas and tomatoes that I won’t gobble down, I had yet to find The One. Many were closer to a spiced tomato sauce with chickpeas in it: few had the spice assault I was looking for and none had that thing, a sour note, you find in great Indian food but is more elusive to American home cooks with a curry habit. 

a mutt of spices 

And then on Saturday night, we finally hit the ball out of the park. A Madhur Jaffrey recipe, with a little ing, was exactly what I kept hoping to find in the pot after cooking my way through onion, garlic, ginger, hot peppers and a very long list of spices but had yet to find: chickpeas in the center field, untimid flavor and a sour punch that both comforts you on a brittle 25 degree day but also wakes you from hibernation. We served it, as always, with my favorite Indian-Spiced Potatoes and Cauliflower, some long-grained rice, wedges of toasted store-bought onion flatbread and oh, this too: I was digging in the fridge and came across the remaining Toasted Cumin Crème Fraîche from last month’s Black Bean Soup and whisked it into some whole milk yogurt for a delicious raita-like compliment to the chickpeas. 

chickpeas from the slow-cooker 

We stayed in and hung out with Crazy Hairs. We had beer and two guests. If this is the new Saturday night routine, I could get used to it. 

chana masala 

About buying spices: If you’re anything like I was a few years ago, you love Indian food but are intimidated by the long list of spices in the recipes that you might not have and the expense of picking them up. Here’s my suggestion: do it. Buy them. Invest. If you like this food, you will be thrilled that you can cook quality Indian food at home as it strikes your fancy, often from items in your own pantry. Although the spices are an initial investment, the price of the remaining ingredients in Indian recipes (and especially the ones on this site) to be among the most affordable, largely dried beans and lentils, onions and rice — these recipes are a great way to stay on budget. 

One year ago: Chocolate Whiskey and Beer Cupcakes 
Three years ago: Asparagus, Artichoke and Shiitake Risotto 

Chana Masala 
Adapted from a Madhur Jaffrey recipe, which was adapted over here because much to my frustration, I own two Madhur Jaffrey books and this is in neither 

This is an intensely spiced bright orange chana masala with a sourish bite that reminded of us the best restaurant versions we’ve tasted. I’m thrilled to finally have a good recipe for it at home. 

The major changes I made were simplifying the addition of spices, adding more tomatoes and oh, the recipe calls for a tablespoon of amchoor powder, which I did not have. I looked it up and learned that it was dried unripe mango powder (which sounds so delicious to me, I’m buying it next time I go to Kalustyan’s, who also sells it online), which is clearly a sour flavor, so I upped the lemon juice i used instead. The dish had a nice sour snap at the end, so I will presume this is a good swap. 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
2 medium onions, minced 
1 clove garlic, minced 
2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger 
1 fresh, hot green chili pepper, minced 
1 tablespoon ground coriander 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper (I used a quarter of this because my cayenne is extremely hot) 
1 teaspoon ground turmeric 
2 teaspoons cumin seeds, toasted and ground 
1 tablespoon amchoor powder (see note) 
2 teaspoons paprika 
1 teaspoon garam masala 
2 cups tomatoes, chopped small or 1 15-ounce can of whole tomatoes with their juices, chopped small 
2/3 cup water 
4 cups cooked chickpeas or 2 (15-ounce) cans chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 lemon (juiced) (see note: I used a whole lemon to swap for the amchoor powder) 

Heat oil in a large skillet. Add onion, garlic, ginger and pepper and sauté over medium heat until browned, about 5 minutes. Turn heat down to medium-low and add the coriander, cumin, cayenne, turmeric, cumin seeds, amchoor (if using it), paprika and garam masala. Cook onion mixture with spiced for a minute or two, then add the tomatoes and any accumulated juices, scraping up any bits that have stuck to the pan. Add the water and chickpeas. Simmer uncovered for 10 minutes, then stir in salt and lemon juice. 

Eat up or put a lid on it and reheat it when needed. Curries such as this reheat very well, later or or in the days that follow, should it last that long. 

START RECIPE
chard and white bean stew 
JANUARY 4, 2011 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
High on the list of dishes I’d like to be able to make without a second thought, a special trip to a special store and that I hope to still be cooking when we spend our days in his-and-hers creaking rocking chairs, lamenting that Jacob never calls us anymore, is a hearty white bean stew. 


chard 
quick-cooking the greens 

And never has my need to get a recipe like this down been more urgent, given the following confluence of events: 1. A kid who is getting more and more into rejecting food, but shows a keen interest in beans and anything cooked in a tomato-y sauce. 2. A mama who is near the end of her tether trying to fit an impossible amount of ingredients in her 2 (yes, two) kitchen cabinets and revels in a recipe that will use up multiple cans of beans, a box of tomatoes and a carton of broth and 3. A website audience that will likely hightail it out of here if I present you with one more recipe in a row that hinges on cream and booze, butter and cheese, butter and sprinkles or butter and wine. It’s January, after all, and we have resolutions to attend to! Resolutions that probably do not include butter… That’s for February, after all. 

carrots and scrapings 

prep 

I know that unless you are a tomato and white bean junkie, as I am, the prospect of a bowl of sloshy stew built on their foundation doesn’t sound very appealing. But what transforms it, I’d argue, is the presentation. I like to place a thick slice of well-toasted, garlic-rubbed bread underneath, ladle the stew over it and finish it with a softly poached egg. A few gratings of parmesan or romano might also be welcome on top, but I don’t think it needs either to be tasty. Mostly, this is a cozy meal, the perfect antidote to a month of excess without feeling excessively earnest. It’s still 36 degrees outside, afterall, last week’s blizzard remains in filthy gray islands of snow (albeit a little prettier in backyards) and there are more than three months until spring. Hearty is key. 

white bean and chard stew 
served 

One year ago: Southwestern Pulled Brisket 
Two years ago: Potato and Artichoke Tortilla 
Three years ago: Viennese Cucumber Salad 
Four years ago: Really Simple Homemade Pizza 

Chard and White Bean Stew 
Adapted a bit generously from Dan Barber 

I started with a recipe from Dan Barber for a kale and white bean stew, even though I knew it wasn’t what I wanted. I have yet to get over my dislike of kale, despite a brief period of acceptance when I learned how to make it into chips. I used chard instead, but you could use any green you’ve got, even spinach. (Though if you are unfamiliar with chard but like spinach, trust me, you’ll love chard.) I also only used 2/3 of the greens suggested, because I really want this to be a white bean, not greens, stew. Then, I swapped some of the vegetable broth for pureed tomatoes, because that’s what I think a bean stew needs. I dialed back the broth a bit, because I don’t like soupy stews… Oh, and I added some weights and then (typical!) forgot I was weighing ingredients so only some are listed. Sorry about that. 

Finally, I cooked the wine down more than suggested because I wanted to make sure I wasn’t accidentally going to booze up the kid so that he might accidentally get a good night’s sleep. Because that would be terrible, you know? 

1 pound Swiss chard (can also swap kale, spinach or another green), ribs and stems removed and cleaned 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 cup (5 1/4 ounces) chopped carrots 
1 cup (5 ounces) chopped celery 
1 cup (4 1/4 ounces) chopped shallots, about 4 medium 
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped 
1 cup dry white wine 
2 15-ounce cans (or about 3 3/4 cups) white beans, drained and rinsed 
2 cups (or more to taste) vegetable broth 
1 cup pureed tomatoes (from a can/carton/your jarred summer supply) 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 fresh thyme sprigs 
1 bay leaf 
1 tablespoon sherry vinegar 

Toasted bread slices, poached eggs (tutorial), chopped herbs such as tarragon, parsley or chives or grated Parmesan or Romano to serve (optional) 

Bring medium pot of salted water to boil. Cook chard (or any heavier green: no need to precook baby spinach) for one minute, then drain and squeeze out as much extra water as possible. Coarsely chop chard. 

Wipe out medium pot to dry it, and heat olive oil over medium. Add carrots, celery, shallots and garlic and saute for 15 minutes. Barber warns not to brown them but I didn’t mind a light golden color on them. Add wine (scraping up any bits that have stuck to the pot) and cook it until it reduced by three-fourths. Add beans, broth, tomatoes, a few pinches of salt, freshly ground black pepper, thyme and bay leaf and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer for 20 minutes. Add chard and cook for 5 minutes more. Remove thyme and bay leaf. Add more broth if you’d like a thinner stew and adjust salt and pepper to taste. 

Serve as is drizzled with sherry vinegar. Or you can ladle the stew over thick piece of toasted country bread or baguette that has been rubbed lightly with half a clove of garlic, top that with a poached egg and a few drops of sherry vinegar and/or some grated cheese. 

START RECIPE
chicken chili 
JANUARY 4, 2016 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Although I am firmly of the belief that the internet needs another recipe for chicken crockpot chili like your groggy narrator needs another morning of her mini-humans rousing her before 6 a.m., when I went to make my own one night, I was dissatisfied with what I found. It wasn’t because recipes out there weren’t good, or well-reviewed and certainly not because they hadn’t made countless other people out there content at mealtimes, but because they weren’t what I was looking for. And, well, as that’s how we got here in the first place, it seems appropriate enough to step into the year 2016, the year this website turns ten, not fighting this at all. 


what you'll need, minus the broth 
all in at once 

While I’m hardly aspiring towards the Texas Gold Standard of chile con carne — chunks of beef, lots of chiles, and ftlog, no beans — I think there’s something to a fairly straightforward, excellently-seasoned chili. I could overlook the instant tapioca, jars of salsa, cinnamon, chocolate, onion powder, garlic powder, taco seasoning mix and celery on the front page of Google’s results that might be someone’s thing, just not mine, but I kept getting stuck on one point: if we’re going to run the slow-cooker for 5 or 10 hours, or simmer a chili on the stove for 3, why start with canned beans? Dried beans are more economical, more flavorful and will plump up splendidly in either of those cooking times without any presoaking nonsense. 

fin 

And so I had to fiddle up my own recipe. I made a hasty pot of chicken chili in the hazy newborn days this summer because I hadn’t then or now shaken this obsessive need to only consume meals that can be eating on or with tortillas, and everyone declared it the best dinner in a long time. I hadn’t expect this: it was food for convenience, for ease — mustn’t it then taste like compromise? 

shredding barely required 

The leftovers were grand, too, and from there, I couldn’t stop. When my husband had to go to Germany for work in November and I was quietly fur-reaking out over how I was going to single parent when I am barely cut out for coparenting most days, I set up another pot and boom, two nights of wholesome dinner were set. I made it a few weeks ago when Thanksgiving pies were weighing heavily on our midsections, and I made it again yesterday when we’d finished off the weekend’s potato kugel and baked Lorraine-ish omelet and oh-god-don’t-even-find-out-how-good-these-are-they’re-just-going-to-ruin-everything sticky bun brunch and were, at last, all set on butter and cream for a while. Did you hear that? Eight times we’ve had this in two months, and we’re not even tired of it yet. I hope you find this equally worthy of repetition. 

slow-cooker chicken chili 

One year ago: Popcorn Party Mix and My Ultimate Chicken Noodle Soup 
Two years ago: Parmesan Broth with Kale and White Beans 
Three years ago: Carrot Soup with Tahini and Crisped Chickpeas 
Four years ago: Scallion Meatballs with Soy-Ginger Glaze and Carrot Soup with Miso and Sesame 
Five years ago: Chard and White Bean Stew 
Six years ago: Parmesan Cream Crackers and Walnut Pesto 
Seven years ago: Gramercy Tavern’s Gingerbread and Pizza with Broccoli Rabe and Roasted Onions 
Eight years ago: Caramel Cake and 2008’s 96 Favorites 
Nine years ago: Hazelnut Truffles, Gougeres and Russian Tea Cakes 

And for the other side of the world: 
Six Months Ago: Green Beans with Almond Pesto 
1.5 Years Ago: Blue and Red Berry Ricotta Galette 
2.5 Years Ago: Slow and Low Dry-Rub Oven Chicken 
3.5 Years Ago: Flag Cake 
4.5 Years Ago: Skirt Steak with Bloody Mary Tomato Sauce 

Chicken Chili 

Psst, there’s a vegetarian Three-Bean Chili in the archives. 

Updated to note: It sounds like a lot of people are having trouble getting their dried beans to cook in the suggested times. I’m so sorry for the trouble. I tested this with different beans (Rancho Gordo and also Goya brand) and in different slow-cookers (an ancient one from Farberware and another from Proctor-Silex) and never had trouble: I’m beginning to suspect my slow-cooker is more robust than others in heat. This is little consolation to those of you with crunchy beans. 

So, updated suggestions: If you’re worried or have had trouble in the past getting dried beans to cook in a reasonable amount of time in your slow-cooker, go ahead and soak them overnight first. But, I want you to soak them in the 5 1/3 cups of water and then use that water — which is now full of flavor — in the slow-cooker. This will also allow you to have the right liquid level at the end, since it will be impossible otherwise to know how much water your beans absorbed and adjust the recipe accordingly. 

Serves 6 generously, 8 in more moderate portions (i.e. what you see above) 

2 pounds boneless skinless chicken parts, cut into 3 to 4 large chunks (I use a 50/50 mix of breasts and thighs) 
1 small yellow onion, chopped small 
2 large garlic cloves, minced 
1 tablespoon ground cumin 
1 1/2 teaspoons dried oregano 
2 teaspoons fine sea salt 
Heat via 1 to 2 jalapenos or other fresh hot pepper, minced, or a ground chili powder of your choice, to taste 
1 28-ounce can crushed tomatoes, fire-roasted if you can find them or 2 10-ounce cans Ro-Tel (yield is a little less but not noticeable in final chili) 
2 2/3 cups small dried beans (I use half black beans, half small red beans: I do not presoak but do read the updated note up top: read the note at the bottom if you’re using kidney beans) 
5 1/3 cups water (can replace all or part with broth) 

To serve: Lime wedges, sour cream or Mexican crema, finely chopped white onion or thinly sliced scallion, chopped cilantro, corn or flour tortilla chips, and hot sauce

(I have always wanted to write recipe instructions just like this!) Throw everything in the pot and turn the heat on: 

On the stove: Simmer the ingredients on low until the beans are tender, about 2 1/2 to 3 hours. Stir occasionally. 
In a slow-cooker: On HIGH for 4 1/2 to 5 hours or on LOW for 8 to 10. 
In a pressure-cooker: I am sorry but I haven’t tested it out in mine but my estimate, based on other recipes, would be 22 to 25 minutes, depending on the size of the beans. You can use your pressure cooker’s manual as starting point, as well. 
To finish: The chicken will likely have fallen apart, but you can help it along by reaching into the pot with two forks and shredding it to your desired texture. Taste and adjust seasonings. Serve with fixings of your choice. 

P.S. We like this with baked tortilla chips. I estimate two small corn tortillas per person and cut them into 8 wedges. Brush a large baking sheet lightly with olive oil, arrange tortilla wedges in one layer, lightly dab the tops with more olive oil and sprinkle with fine salt. Bake at 350 for 10 minutes, check for color, and add more baking time as needed until they’re golden and crisp. 

A note about kidney beans: I do not use kidney beans here, but small red ones, and I do not presoak my beans however if you are using red kidney beans, do keep in mind that due to a pathogen known as phytohaemagglutinin the FDA advises people who wish to use kidney beans in slow-cookers to first soak the beans for at least 5 hours, dump the water, boil them in fresh water for 10 minutes and then continue with the recipe. As your beans will have soaked up more liquid before they go in, you will find you need less to cook them in for the final chili. In terms of how freaked out you should be over kidney beans, from the FDA website: “Reports of this syndrome in the United States are anecdotal and have not been formally published.” And that this was mostly a concern reported in the last 70s in the UK. 

START RECIPE
chickpea salad with roasted red peppers 
NOVEMBER 14, 2008 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I know, chickpea salad? What a letdown, right? Well, what can I say except that there is simply no way to chase cookies with bits of tangy toffee and bitterish walnuts in a cookie that is pure brownie awesomeness in the middle, replete with the shiny crackled lid… 


I’m sorry. I just had to get one more. I can stop anytime. (Also, we’ll be out soon, anyway.) 

roasted red peppers 

But there must still be a place in our hearts and gullets for chickpea salads, lest I wish to be a story on evening network news about the crane that had to come and extract me from our walk-up when Alex could no longer roll me down the stairs. And this one–yet another great find from Deborah Madison–is no bad place to start: fresh roasted pepper strips, capers, a little mint and a little garlic, it was just another salad in a spread that has turned out to be one of my favorite thrown-together dinner parties in ages. Almost everything made in advance, I actually got to (get this) sit down and hang out with my friends! Revolutionary, I tell you. 

chickpeas 

Chickpeas, previously: Bulgur Salad with Chickpeas, Roasted Red Peppers and Spiced Cumin Dressing, Couscous and Feta-Stuffed Peppers, Paula Wolfert’s Hummus and Spaghetti (Fideos) with Chorizo and Almonds 

One year ago: Brussels Sprouts and Chestnuts in Brown Butter 
Two years ago: Tomato and Sausage Risotto 

Chickpea Salad with Capers and Roasted Red Peppers 
Adapted from Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone 

Now, I know not everyone has time to soak their own chickpeas, and I know that there are canned ones that aren’t bad at all. But. I think that in chickpeas almost more than anything that comes dried, the flavor pops when they’ve been cooked fresh in a way that it doesn’t when they’ve been in their canning liquid for ages. Buy a one pound bag, and you’ll have plenty left over to make a nice batch of hummus 

2 large red peppers, roasted and skinned (great directions over here, if you’re new to this) 
3 cups of cooked chickpeas, rinsed if canned (about 2 15-ounce cans) 
1/4 cup of parsley, chopped 
2 tablespoons of chopped mint 
3 tablespoons of capers, rinsed 
2 tablespoons of fresh lemon juice or red wine or sherry vinegar 
1/4 teaspoon of salt 
2 cloves of garlic, minced 
4 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil 

Cut the peppers into half-inch wide strips and put them in a large bowl together with the chickpeas, herbs and the capers. In a smaller bowl, whisk together the lemon juice, salt, garlic and oil. Pour over the chickpea mixture and combine.Serve immediately, or refrigerate it for a day to get the flavors to mingle fantastically. 

This is a great make-ahead dish for weekday lunches. It would also be wonderful on a pile of torn lettuce, served with toasted pita wedges. 

START RECIPE
chopped salad with feta, lime and mint 
JUNE 29, 2012 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I’m sorry, guys, but I get really boring in the summer. Like, hey-isn’t-it-nice-when-the-sun-shines boring. Or, let-me-tell-you-about-that-time-I-got-the-apartment-painted boring. 


pile of pole beans 
radishes 

Okay fine, I’ll tell you anyway. Remember when I told you that on our Vacation From Parenting I had an ambitious to-do list but my husband was quite certain we’d be better off doing as little as possible? Well, Alex: 1, Deb: 0 and here it is encrypted on the permanent record of the internet. As it turns out, having to take your entire apartment apart to allow for painters is totally not fun at all. Sometimes there’s a communication breakdown that leads to you coming home right as they’re finishing up to find that your apartment had been painted the wrong color. Sometimes, in the same week, your bathtub is suspiciously filled with plaster, your door handle breaks and leaves you locked out of your apartment for an eternity, your air conditioning dies, and 48 hours after the painters had left, not a single piece of furniture got ambitious enough to move itself back into position, which means that you’ll probably be doing that for the remainder of your so-called vacation. Really, Deb [insert slow clap here] 
time your husband suggest you do nothing but sleep, socialize and relax for a week, perhaps you might just not argue. 

queso fresco, feta, ricotta salata 

It also kills all lofty cooking goals, but since we’re going for honesty, I should just admit that I didn’t have all that many. Like I started saying above before I had to go and prove it, I get a “little” boring in the summer. But, it’s not my fault! It’s just a theory, but I suspect that nature designed summer produce this way, intentionally making it so tomatoes and peppers and cucumbers required exactly zero amounts of cooking to transform them into culinary greatness so that you’d be free for home improvements beach trips and cocktails on decks at sunset. 

halved 

This week’s obsession is, indeed, and conveniently, virtually cooking-free. I’ve always had a soft spot for salads that are almost all crunch and no filler. While the ingredient combinations with which you can play this out are endless, sometimes a specific one gets in your head and you cannot get it out until you recreate it, ad infinitum, at home. This happened this week after we had dinner at The Breslin, before paint and plaster (and the avoidance there-of, which led to oh yes, we did, and I’m not sorry) took over our lives. Pretty much everything April Bloomfield cooks is the kind of perfection that you didn’t know your life was missing before you arrived (hello, lamburger, crisp boiled peanuts and thrice-cooked chips!) but is never going to be complete again without after you left. 

chile-lime dressing 
market haul mix 

And yet, it wasn’t as much the market salad as the crazy, absolutely addictive interplay of feta, mint, lime and spectacularly well-toasted sunflower seeds on her chopped salad that I had to have again and again. And so I took this week’s languishing haul from the market and chopped away. I retoasted my sunflower seeds so they’d be darker. I used some queso fresco instead of feta, but you can use whatever you can get, even ricotta salata. I slivered some fresh mint and even stirred in some chile powder and the result has got to be my idea of a summer salad’s highest calling — a revelation, crunchy and refreshing, and leaving you free to be your goofy self. 

feta, lime, mint and sunflower seeds 

One year ago: Skirt Steak with Bloody Mary Tomato Salad 
Two years ago: Zucchini and Ricotta Galette 
Three years ago: Mediterranean Pepper Salad 
Four years ago: Mango Curd 
Five years ago: Everyday Yellow Dal 

Chopped Salad with Feta, Lime, Mint and Sunflower Seeds 

I used 1 cup each of halved and thinly sliced radishes (3 1/4 ounces), 1/2 pound of lightly cooked, cooled green and yellow beans (1/2 pound fresh) that I’d cut into 1/4-inch slices on the bias, and quartered and thinly sliced Kirby cucumbers (from 5 ounces or 2 whole). However, you should use whatever is crunchy and you’re craving, such as peppers, carrots, lightly cooked corn cut off the cob, celery, fennel or more. 

To bulk this up into a more rounded dish, you could add a cup or two of thinly sliced lettuce, 1 to 2 cups of cooked, cooled grains such as barley, quinoa or farro, or a cup or so of cooked black beans, to add to the Southwestern vibe. In each case, it would be best to double the dressing so you’ll be able to cover everything evenly. 

Serves 4 as appetizers and 2 as more of a meal-sized salad 

3 cups chopped, crunchy vegetables 
1/2 cup (2 ounces) crumbled feta, queso fresco or ricotta salata 
2 scallions, thinly sliced 
1/3 cup well-toasted sunflower seeds, salted or unsalted 
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1/4 teaspoon coarse or Kosher salt, plus more to taste 
1/4 teaspoon chile powder or 1/8 teaspoon each your choice combination of chile powder, cumin, cayenne or sumac 
Freshly ground black pepper, to taste 
1 to 2 tablespoons thinly sliced fresh mint leaves 

Mix the vegetables, feta, scallions, seeds and mint in a medium bowl. Whisk lime juice, olive oil, salt, spice and black pepper in a small dish and pour over vegetables, tossing to evenly coat. Adjust with more salt or pepper as needed. Garnish with mint and crunch-crunch-crunch away! 

START RECIPE
corn chowder with chile, lime and cotija 
AUGUST 22, 2017 JUMP TO RECIPE, COMMENTS 
I evicted a longtime resident of my To Cook list this week with this corn chowder. I have no argument with traditional corn chowder — it has cream, bacon, and potatoes and thus would be impossible not to love as soup or salad — but I adore to the point of boring everyone around me with my gushing, Mexican-style corn either elote-style (on the the cob rolled in butter, mayo, lime juice and coated with salty crumbled cotija cheese and chile powder or a chile-lime seasoning blend) or esquites-style (all of the above, but in a cup). This corn chowder attempts to celebrate the best of both. 


making a mess of the kitchencutting kernels from the cornassistantblended and whole corn kernels 

I started with a classic corn chowder using whole and blended fresh kernels, onion, garlic, milk, and cream but added some jalapeño and chili powder for flavor and used cooked black and small red beans instead of potatoes for bulk. Then, right before you eat it, because I am fully of the conviction that finishes are what make a soup, you make a rich street corn-like dressing with mayo, sour cream, cheese, and lime and dollop it right into the center of the soup. Squeeze more lime all over, shake on some chili powder and finish it with fresh cilantro and, if you’re not sure you’ve gilded the lily enough (or, perhaps, have children still viewing this meal skeptically), bake some corn tortilla wedges into chips. 

with some chili powdercorn chowdersimmeringcrumbled cotija 

Repeat as long as the corn as corn is in season, or if you’re us, exactly one more evening because tomorrow (!) we are heading to Spain (!) for vacation and no, we haven’t packed or even taken our suitcases out of the closet, I’m sorry if you previously mistook us for high-functioning adults. More soon from the other side, including some Spanish favorites, a new favorite cocktail, two new Food Network episodes, and then when we return, more news about this new little cookbook coming out this fall and some book tour dates. 

corn chowder with chile, lime and cotijacorn chowder with chile, lime and cotija 

Corn Chowder with Chile, Lime and Cotija 
SERVINGS: 6 TO 8 TIME: 1 HOUR 

The finishing mixture is mostly from Serious Eat’s Elotes recipe, although I nixed the garlic and keep the cilantro and chili powder separate. If you use only 1 tablespoon of it per serving, you will probably have extra but I wanted to give you the option to use more if you wish. 

SOUP 
8 medium/large ears corn, husks and silks removed 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 tablespoon butter 
1 large onion, preferably Spanish, chopped fine 
2 medium cloves garlic, minced 
1 to 2 jalapeño peppers, finely chopped 
1 tablespoon mild chili powder or 1 teaspoon of a hotter one 
3 tablespoons (25 grams) all-purpose flour 
4 cups (945 ml) vegetable or chicken stock or broth 
2 15-ounce cans small red or black beans, drained and rinsed (or one of each) (3 1/2 cups) 
1 cup (235 ml) whole milk 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper or cayenne to taste 
1/2 to 1 cup (120 to 235 ml) heavy cream 
FINISH 
1/4 cup (50 grams) mayonnaise 
1/4 cup (60 grams) sour cream or Mexican crema 
1/2 cup (110 grams) finely crumbled Cotija, feta or ricotta salata cheese, plus more for serving 
1 lime, divided 
1/4 cup finely chopped fresh cilantro 
Chili powder or a chili-lime seasoning such as Tajín 
Baked tortilla chips (optional) 

Make the soup: With a sharp knife, cut kernels from 8 ears corn (you should have about 6 cups): transfer half to a bowl. Chop the other half into pulpy bits on a cutting board or blend them in a food processor until half-pureed. Add to bowl. Firmly scrape any pulp remaining on cobs with back of knife into bowl with corn, unless you’re me and had weirdly dry stalks, yielding no corn “milk.” Set corn aside. 
In a large (5 quarts is ideal) heavy pot, heat olive oil and butter over medium. Add onion and cook until tender and beginning to brown at the edges, about 6 to 8 minutes. Add garlic, jalapeño and chili powder and cook together for 2 minutes more. Add flour and stir into onion-garlic mixture until it disappears. Stirring constantly, gradually add stock. Add beans, corn, and 1 cup milk and bring to a simmer. Simmer, stirring occasionally, for 10 to 13 minutes, until corn is tender. Add salt (I used about 1 tablespoon Diamond kosher salt total here) and freshly ground black pepper or cayenne to taste. Add cream to taste (we found 1/2 cup sufficient, but it will be less creamy than traditional) and cook for 3 minutes more. 

To finish: Combine mayonnaise, sour cream or crema, cheese, and juice of half a lime in a bowl: stir to combine. Cut second half of lime into wedges. 

Ladle soup into bowls and dollop in center with 1 tablespoon (or more to taste) of mayo-cheese mixture. Squeeze lime juice over to taste, sprinkle with chili powder and chopped cilantro and serve, baked tortilla chips on the side if you wish. 


START RECIPE
crisp black bean tacos with feta and slaw 
FEBRUARY 2, 2009 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Let me just get this out of the way before I begin: I’m a little embarrassed by this meal. Not because it took 10 minutes to make, but because it came entirely from things that were already packaged and it tasted… well, not bad, but certainly not like I made any great effort. I bet you can’t wait to sign up, huh? 


smashing black beans 

So why I am telling you about it? Because we’ve all been there, haven’t we? Even in New York City, where you can get anything delivered at any moment’s notice, there are days when one more meal that arrives in plastic-lidded foil containers will send you over the edge. I made this on one of those days. It was 8 p.m., we were both starving and I had one chance to  Alex to grab something at the store on his way home and I didn’t want to miss it. So I Googled probably one of those most popular searches on the Internet, “10 minute meals” and, well, that pretty much brings us up to today. 

slaw with scallions and lime juice 

Before I get into all of the things I’d do differently next time (you know, besides “try for once to plan ahead for dinner”) you should know that we cleaned our plates. A lime-y slaw with bits of feta and cumin-scented black beans in a pan-crisped tortilla are nothing to complain about for dinner. In fact, I like all of those elements a lot, especially when I can get them on my plate in time for Top Chef. Where, ahem, I can’t resist pointing out that a whole lot of the food didn’t look half this good. 

black bean lime slaw tacos 

Crispy Black Bean Tacos with Feta and Cabbage Slaw 
Adapted from Bon Appetit, February 2009 

There are dozens of ways to  this. Next time, in keeping with the shortcut vibe, I might just use Goya’s canned black beans in sauce (which I’ve confessed to loving more than once) instead of mashing a can with what seemed like not enough seasoning next time. And, with the minutes that would save, I’d much rather use my favorite green onion and red cabbage slaw instead of the suggested one. If I felt like adding some extra protein, it would only take a couple additional minutes to saute some ground meat in a pan with onion and stir it into the beans — especially the saucier ones. But really, the possibilities are endless, so use the recipe as a loose guideline and have fun with it 

Serves 4, or so I hear 

1 15-ounce can black beans, drained 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
5 teaspoons olive oil, divided 
2 tablespoons (or more) fresh lime juice 
2 cups coleslaw mix or shredded cabbage 
2 green onions, thinly sliced 
1/3 cup chopped fresh cilantro 
4 white or yellow corn tortillas 
1/3 cup crumbled feta cheese 
Hot sauce 

Place beans and cumin in small bowl: partially mash. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Mix 2 teaspoons olive oil and lime juice in medium bowl: add coleslaw, green onions, and cilantro and toss to coat. Season slaw to taste with salt and pepper. 

Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in large nonstick or cast iron skillet over medium-high heat. Add tortillas in single layer. Spoon 1/4 of bean mixture onto half of each tortilla: cook 1 minute. Fold tacos in half. Cook until golden brown, about 1 minute per side. Fill tacos with feta and slaw. Pass hot sauce alongside, or if your name is Alex, drown your taco in a puddle of it. 

START RECIPE
cubed, hacked caprese 
AUGUST 24, 2009 JUMP TO COMMENTS
When it comes to off-the-cuff and mostly unplanned cooking, I have a tendency to do this thing that, depending on your perspective, is either a total shame or completely understandable: I don’t tell you about it. I’ll have thrown together a salad or a sandwich or some odd assortment of vegetables and couscous and made us lunch or dinner and Alex will say, “will you put this on your site?” and I’ll say “Of course not. Is there some shortage of recipes for sandwiches or roasted vegetables on the internet? Feh, it would be totally boring content.” [Yes, I actually talk like this. It’s embarrassing and I should keep to myself.] 


mozzarella 

Anyway, I made one of these Deb Dishes the other night and again snorted when Alex suggested I share it with you, until I was about three-quarters of the way done with mine and I realized that just because talking about caprese, or my own hacked version of it, isn’t exactly the height of cooking originality, doesn’t mean that someone wouldn’t enjoy eating exactly what we had in front of us. 

diced 

So let’s talk about this cubed-up caprese salad I often make for barbecues or pot-lucks or whenever I want to eat something really summery without doing more than a lick of work: I dice mozzarella and tomatoes together, drain and rinse a can of white beans and toss it with a mixture of pesto (though slivered basil works in a pinch) and red wine vinegar and season it generously with salt and pepper. Sometimes I even add bits of proscuitto, if we have any around, and I’m feeling wild. Yes, revolutionary, I know. 

pesto-addled caprese 

But for me, this is more than a salad, it’s a springboard. Once you have this mix together, you can make a million different things with it and it was here — right here — that I decided to reconsider my Nobody Needs a Recipe for Caprese stance and talk it up anyway. Because there are so many places you can take this: 

Our regular: Scoop it up with toasted bread that has been drizzled with olive oil and sea salt. 
Toss 1/2-inch fresh bread cubes with olive oil and sea salt and toast them. Toss them in the salad for a petite panzanella-style salad. 
Mound some of the salad on a piece of bread, top with another. Grill on a panini press. 
Spread it on a unbaked pizza dough or flatbread and bake it at your oven’s top temperature for 10 minutes. Or toss that bread instead on the grill, because who needs to heat up the kitchen in the middle of August? 
Toss cold, boiled pasta and extra dressing in it to make a pasta salad. 
Mix boiled pasta into it and throw it in an oiled casserole dish and bake it at 375 until bubbly and golden. 
Bulk it up: Add cubes of salami or cooked chicken, bits of olives, a handful of capers, bits of red onion, chopped sundried tomatoes or drained and diced canned artichoke hearts. 
cubed, hacked caprese 

Of course the beauty of the recipe as-is is that it requires no stove or oven to put together, which given the steamy, unrelenting sauna of the last two weeks ’round these here parts, explains why it’s having a Renaissance in our kitchen right now. But just when I thought another day of the dryer exhaust-like air might be the last straw, the humidity seems to have broken today, I ran several errands without needing six hours to recuperate — hallelujuah! — and I’m ready to go near that oven again. Should all go well, I’ll have not one but two new tomato-y recipes for you this week so stock up at the market: you’ll thank me later. 

cubed, hacked caprese +toast 

“Springboard” salads, previously: Black Bean Confetti Salad and Israeli Salad 

One year ago: Crisp Rosemary Flatbread 
Two years ago: Smoke-Roasted Stuffed Bell Peppers 

Cubed, Hacked Caprese 

No, this is not a traditional caprese — there are beans, there’s pesto and even (gasp!) vinegar. But the flavor profile is nearly the same, with some added functionality (which makes it sound like I’m talking about an operating system, heh, and all the more fun to “hack”). Keep a container of this in the fridge and make a different lunch every day of the week with it, using the ideas above. Or eat it straight and lazily, as we do. 

3/4 to 1 pound fresh mozzarella, diced into 1/2-inch cubes 
1 pound peak-season tomatoes (I prefer roma for this because they’re less wet, but other varieties also work), diced into 1/2-inch cubes 
1 15-ounce can white beans, drained and rinsed or 1 3/4 cups white beans that you’ve cooked fresh 
1/4 cup pesto (or a handful of slivered basil plus 1/4 cup olive oil) 
3 to 4 tablespoons red wine vinegar 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix and season and then reseason again to adjust to your taste. Eat at once or keep it in the fridge up to a few days (really, it will depend on how fresh your mozzarella is: the made-daily stuff is only good for a day or two, most others will last nearly a week).

START RECIPE
curried lentils and sweet potatoes 
NOVEMBER 25, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Thanksgiving usually marks the end of my yearly fall fanaticism, and the beginning of the inevitable resignation to winter that goes into full-swing after the New Years. I’m no longer obsessed with the myriad of fall flavors, its squashes and medium-body soups and wines, I just want to stay warm. I hibernate, so to speak. I start cooking meals at home with more regularity: I find excuses to stay in. 


chard potato mise 

After all of the holiday buzz this curried lentil and sweet potato dish landed exactly on that bridge, a lazy Sunday after a flurry of a holiday weekend. It’s from the New York Times Thanksgiving coverage two weeks ago, from an article by Melissa Clark about vegetarian dishes fitting the meal. But really, it had my name all over it, because the sweet potatoes were made spicy, not saccharine, and the Indian-spiced lentils and greens were exactly the health kick I needed after this weekend of heavy intake, with the ease of a one-pot meal. I don’t need a holiday dinner to find an excuse to make it. 

sweet potatoes 

I know it’s not easy on the eyes–heck, it would be a great contestant in an ugliest gourmet contest, but as Cathy so aptly notes, the best home-cooked food is rarely ready for its close-up. Honestly, it was so good, we couldn’t have cared less. 

curried lentils with sweet potatoes 

One year ago: Blondies 

Curried Lentils With Sweet Potatoes and Swiss Chard 
Adapted from The New York Times 11/14/07 

Yields 8 to 10 side-dish servings: 6 main-course servings. 

2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 
1 medium onion, chopped 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
1 1-inch piece fresh ginger root, peeled and grated 
1 1/2 teaspoons garam masala 
1 1/2 teaspoons curry powder 
1 jalapeño pepper, seeded if desired, then minced 
4 to 5 cups vegetable broth as needed 
2 pounds orange-fleshed sweet potatoes, peeled and cut into 
1/2-inch cubes (about 4 cups) 
1 1/2 cups dried lentils 
1 bay leaf 
1 pound Swiss chard, center ribs removed, leaves thinly sliced 
1 teaspoon kosher salt, more to taste 
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1/3 cup chopped fresh cilantro 
Finely grated zest of 1 lime 
Juice of 1/2 lime 
1/3 cup finely chopped tamari almonds, for garnish (optional), available in health food stores 
1/4 cup chopped scallions, for garnish. 

1. In large saucepan, heat oil over medium heat. Add onion and saute until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes. Add garlic, ginger, garam masala, curry powder and jalapeno. Cook, stirring, for 1 minute. 

2. Stir in 4 cups broth, sweet potatoes, lentils and bay leaf. Increase heat to high and bring to a boil: reduce heat to medium, partially cover, and simmer for 25 minutes. (If lentils seem dry, add up to 1 cup stock, as needed.) Stir in chard and salt and pepper, and continue cooking until lentils are tender and chard is cooked, about 30 to 45 minutes total. 

3. Just before serving, stir in cilantro, lime zest and juice. Spoon into a large, shallow serving dish. Garnish with almonds if desired and scallions. 

START RECIPE
ethereally smooth hummus 
JANUARY 8, 2013 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
For as long as I have written this website — yes, even longer than it has been since I told you the wee white lie that Paula Wolfert’s hummus was all I’d ever need — I have known how to make the most ethereally smooth, fluffy, dollop-ing of a hummus and never told you. I have some nerve. But, in my defense, I had my reasons, mostly that I knew if I told you how to make it, I’d be able to hear your eye rolls through the screen, they’d be at once so dramatic and in unison. From there, there would be the loud, synchronized clicks of “Unfollow!” “Unfriend!” “Hide these updates, please!” and the under-breath mutters of “Lady, you have got to be kidding me.” Because, you see, the path between the probably acceptable, vaguely grainy but borderline good-enough hummus you probably have been making and the stuff that I dream about sweeping cold, sweet carrots sticks through — the January version of fresh strawberries and whipped cream — has only one extra stop but most of you will argue that it’s at Cuckoo Farm: you 
ee, you must peel the chickpeas. 


my chickpeas 
your chickpeas just want to be free 

Chickpeas, when they’re cooked, have a thin skin that sags a bit, kind of like a Sharpei’s, but less cute. It hangs about them like they’re trying hard to shake it, but just couldn’t. I have found that if you help them — put a single chickpea between your thumb and next two fingers and press gently until it pops out with a rather satisfying soft pop, then plink! into a bowl — it makes all of the difference in the texture of your final hummus. But I theorized that no sane person would ever spend their time ejecting chickpeas from their skins, because it would be such an arduous t, even reorganzing bookcases, which we did last night, would be preferable. Yet when I cautiously ed you last week if you’d want to hear about a new hummus technique, so many of you said “Yes, please!” I figured it was time to make peace with this technique once and for all. 

naked chickpeas are happy chickpeas 

grind the chickpeas first 
powdered cooked chickpeas 
tahini  
lemon juice 

… with a timer. The thing is, I’m a slow, slow cook and even slower at prep. I dilly-dally. I daydream. Yet even at this leisurely, lazy pace of freeing chickpeas from their loosely tethered confines, only nine minutes had passed when I was done. And I got to think of all of the silly things I’ve spent nine minutes each doing. I waited nine irritated minutes for a refund for something I hadn’t actually bought at a store this weekend. I’ve definitely waited nine bemused minutes for my little New Yorker to walk a single block. It took me no less than nine minutes yesterday eh, most days, to motivate to refill my own water glass. And yet I was convinced that spending nine extra minutes on food prep was madness. Blogga, please. 

whirled into a pillow 
bloop! 
a drizzle of olive oil 

What this nine minutes buys you, however, is a world of difference, hummus that is as far from the grainy, beige beleaguered paste a lot of recipes have led me to as it can be — all pillows and plumes of the softest chickpea-tahini-lemon-garlic puree. I hope it makes a convert out of you, too. 

a dollop of featherweight hummus 

One year ago: Apple Sharlotka 
Two years ago: Vanilla Bean Pudding 
Three years ago: Caramel Pudding and Barley Risotto with Beans and Greens 
Four years ago: Grasshopper Brownies, Pecan Sandies, Sugar and Spice Candied Nuts and Fig and Walnut Biscotti 
Five years ago: Goulash and Lemon Bars 
Six years ago: Balthazar’s Cream of Mushroom Soup 

Ethereally Smooth Hummus 
Recipe adapted from Ottolenghi’s stunning new dream of a book: technique is my own madness 

This is probably where you expect me to give you a soapbox speech about why it is so important that you soak your own chickpeas. And you know, think they taste wonderful, especially if you treat yourself to some of the best. But, I also make it with canned chickpeas quite often (Goya is my favorite, for perfectly cooked, intact canned beans, each time) and it’s perfectly excellent. Below, I’ve included instructions for both.

Makes 1 3/4 cups hummus 

1 3/4 cups cooked, drained chickpeas (from a 15-ounce can) or a little shy of 2/3 cup dried chickpeas (for same yield) 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda (for dried chickpeas only) 
1/2 cup tahini paste 
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice, or more to taste 
2 small cloves garlic, roughly chopped 
3/4 teaspoon table salt, or more to taste 
Approximately 1/4 cup water or reserved chickpea cooking water 

Olive oil, paprika or sumac, pita wedges (brushed with olive oil and sprinkled with za’atar, or a combination of sesame seeds and sea salt), and/or carrot sticks [optional] to serve 

If using dried chickpeas: There are multiple methods to cooking them, and you can use whichever is your favorite, or Ottolenghi’s, or mine. Ottolenghi’s is to put the chickpeas in a large bowl and cover them with at least twice their volume of cold water, leaving them to soak overnight. The next day, drain them, and saute them in a medium saucepan with the baking soda (which many find reduces the gassy effects of fresh beans) for about three minutes. Add 3 1/4 cups water and bring it to a boil. Skim any foam that floats to the surface. They’ll need to cook for 20 to 40 minutes, sometimes even longer, depending on freshness, to become tender. When tender, one will break up easily between your thumb and forefinger. My method is similar, but I often put mine in a slow-cooker on high with the baking soda for approximately three hours, so I don’t have to monitor them as much. 

Drain the chickpeas (saving the chickpea broth for soups or to thin the hummus, if desired) and cool enough that you can pick one up without burning your fingers. 

Whether fresh or canned chickpeas: Peel your chickpeas. I find this is easiest when you take a chickpea between your thumb and next two fingers, arranging the pointy end in towards your palm, and “pop!” the naked chickpea out. Discard the skin. I get into a rhythm and rather enjoy this, but it’s also already established that I’m a weirdo. 

In a food processor, blend the chickpeas until powdery clumps form, a full minute, scraping down the sides. Add the tahini, lemon juice, garlic and salt and blend until pureed. With the machine running, drizzle in water or reserved chickpea cooking water, 1 tablespoon at a time, until you get very smooth, light and creamy mixture. I find I need about 4 tablespoons for this volume, but you may need slightly more or less. 

Taste and adjust seasonings, adding more salt or lemon if needed. I do recommend that you hold off on adding more garlic just yet, however. I find that it “blooms” as it settles in the fridge overnight, becoming much more garlicky after a rest, so that even if it doesn’t seem like enough at first, it likely will be in the long run. 

Transfer the hummus to a bowl and rest it in the fridge for at least 30 minutes, longer if you can. To serve, drizzle it with a little olive oil, and sprinkle it with paprika. Serve it with pita wedges or carrot sticks. 

START RECIPE
everyday yellow dal 
JUNE 28, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I spent the summer in Israel when I was 15 years old, and while I know I did all of the expected stuff–day trips, stays at hostels and kibbutz, the big cities and the desert–one of the things that stands out most clearly in my memory is something sort of random–the way the Israeli kids dressed on hot days: black jeans and often long-sleeved shirts. I’d look at them, so covered, so dark, and want to scream. “Don’t you know how HOT it is here? I’m melting in my Tevas and tank top and you’re there wrapped as tight as you can in WINTER clothes.” Clearly this penchant for melodrama isn’t a recent phenomenon. 


yellow split peas 

I feel the same way on days like we’ve had this week, when the air is so oppressively thick and stagnant (seriously, I think the breath I left on our front step last night greeted me there this morning) and I see people, probably dressed for important jobs in aggressively air-conditioned offices in these woolen suit layers and shoes with covered toes and sleeves (fine, I’m talking about Alex) and I want to melt for them at the thought of having to walk more than a block in such a getup. My Eastern European genes are inconsolable in this swelter, thus if you need us we’ll be over in the corner, hugging it out with the a/c this weather stops being such a brat. 

these get minced 

And what to eat? If common sense demands cold food, fresh fruit, raw vegetables, why am I craving Indian food? All jokes about my lack of sense aside, why do I only want thick, spicy curries? How can I crave dal when it’s 95 immobile rain-longing degrees out? But maybe this has more to do with the denim-clad Israeli kids than I think: we all handle the heat differently, and they chose to cover their skin rather than expose it to the sun’s teeth. I had a Vietnamese friend in college that used to drag me out McLean, Virginia on hot days for some pho, which along with the soothing sweetened iced coffee, he considered the only proper cure for heat exhaustion, and I have to admit, it worked like a charm. If any culture has down what to eat when it’s hotter than a monkey’s butt outside (I say this theoretically, of course), it’s gotta be India. 

black-eyed peas everyday yellow dal 

Seriously, don’t knock it until you try it. Despite the fact that you’re actually cooking with heat when there more than enough to go around, there is something immensely satisfying about eating spicy, wholesome food when all the ice cubes in the world aren’t cutting it. I grabbed these recipes from a San Francisco Chronicle about pairing wine with Indian food a few weeks ago, and–so unlike me–tried them without giving any thought to whether they’d work or not. My leap of faith was duly rewarded, as the Everyday Yellow Dal is going right into the recipe folder, next to the Red Split Lentils and Cauliflower and Potatoes. The Black-Eyed Peas, which I was most dubious about as I don’t really dig coconut milk outside the realm of dessert, were also delicious despite my nagging feeling that might not actually like these vaulted peas. And the salad, slaw really, is exactly what’s been missing from my Indian recipe battery–something crunchy, raw and complementary to these hearty dishes. It’s kind of a gateway drug  to summer dals, refreshing in a way that my lunch of cold salad and raw fruit never is. Don’t say I didn’t warn you.

dinner 

Tangy Shredded Cabbage Salad  
Adapted from Ruta Kahate via SFGate.com, 6/8/07 

Revisiting this in March 2013 minus the chile (3 year-old accommodation) we were reminded of how much we adore those toasted mustard seeds. When they pop, they smell and taste like popcorn. It’s incredible, and it was so lovely to have a salad component to an Indian meal. 

Serves 4 

2 cups tightly packed, shredded green cabbage (use the large holes of a grater) 
1 small serrano chile, seeded and minced 
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice, or more as needed 
1/4 to 1/2 to 1 teaspoon table salt (adjusted from 1 tsp. as a few commenters found it too salty) 
1/2 teaspoon sugar 
1 tablespoon canola oil 
1/2 teaspoon mustard seeds 

Instructions: In a medium bowl, toss together the cabbage, chile, lemon juice, salt and sugar. Taste and adjust the seasoning. You are looking for a well-balanced, sweet and sour taste.

Heat the oil in a small skillet or butter warmer over high heat. When the oil begins to smoke, add the mustard seeds, covering the pan with a lid or splatter screen. When seeds top popping, immediately pour the oil over the cabbage salad and toss well. Let the salad sit for at least 15 minutes before serving, to allow the flavors to blossom.

Serve cold or at room temperature. 

Everyday Yellow Dal 
Adapted from Ruta Kahate via SFGate.com, 6/8/07 

Serves 4 

1 cup yellow split peas, soaked in cold water for 1 hour 
1 large tomato (about 8 ounces), cut into 8 wedges 
1/4 cup canola oil 
1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 
1 medium red onion, finely chopped (about 1 1/2 cups) 
5 large garlic cloves, thinly sliced 
1 teaspoon coriander seeds, finely ground 
3/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne (I used 1/4, thought it was plenty, although I may be a wuss.) 
1/4 cup minced cilantro leaves (I abhor cilantro, and always replace it with flat-leaf parsley.) 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter 
1 teaspoon salt 

Instructions: Drain the dal (split peas) and place in a large saucepan. Add the tomato and 3 cups of water and bring to a boil. 

Reduce the heat to a simmer, cover and cook until peas are tender, 45 minutes to 1 hour. Pick out any tomato skins and whisk dal to emulsify it. Keep warm over very low heat. 

Heat the oil in a medium skillet over high heat. When the oil begins to smoke, add the cumin seeds, covering the pan with a lid or splatter screen. After the seeds have stopped sputtering, add the onion and saute over medium heat. About 3 minutes later, add the garlic and saute until most of the onion has turned dark brown, about 5 minutes altogether. Add the coriander, turmeric and cayenne, stir and pour mixture over the dal. Add the cilantro, butter and salt to the dal and simmer for another 5 minutes. Serve hot. 

Black-Eyed Peas in a Spicy Goan Curry 
Adapted from Ruta Kahate via SFGate.com, 6/8/07 

Serves 4 to 6 

1 cup dried black-eyed peas or two 15-ounce cans, drained 
2 tablespoons, canola oil 
1 small yellow onion, minced (about 1 cup) 
1 teaspoon coriander seeds, finely ground 
1/2 teaspoon finely grated garlic (about 1 large clove) 
1/2 teaspoon finely grated ginger (about a 1-inch piece) 
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne (I always start with the half the suggested cayenne, and then decide if it needs more. Mine didn’t.) 
1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds, finely ground 
1/4 cup minced tomato (1 small tomato) 
2 cups (or 1 cup if using canned peas) hot water 
1/2 teaspoon salt, or to taste if using canned peas 
1/2 teaspoon sugar 
1 cup canned coconut milk 
2 tablespoons minced cilantro leaves 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 

If using dried black-eyed peas, rinse and soak them in enough water to cover for 6 to 8 hours. Drain. 

In a large saucepan, heat the oil over medium-low heat and saute the onion until it turns dark brown, about 8 minutes. Add the coriander, garlic, ginger, turmeric, cayenne and cumin, and stir for 2 minutes. Add the tomato and stir over low heat until it disintegrates. 

Add the peas and mix well. Pour in the hot water, if using, add the salt and sugar, and bring to a boil. Turn the heat down to low, cover, and simmer until the peas are cooked through, about 20 minutes. If using canned peas, simmer for only 10 minutes (it is essential to simmer the canned peas, too, so that all the flavors blend better). Stir in the coconut milk and simmer uncovered for another 8 to 10 minutes, again allowing the flavors to come together. 

Add the cilantro and lemon juice, simmer for 1 minute more, and remove from heat. Serve hot. 

START RECIPE
fideos with favas and red peppers 
JUNE 15, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Some people are chef-chasers, meal-collectors. Being at the right restaurant exactly when it’s the newest thing so they can say they ate there first, or knew so-and-so would be the next Top Chef long before anyone else is where it’s at. Some want to be the first in line for Chef’s take on ramps, rhubarb, some adored garlic chive tangle and five different soft-shell crab specials each spring. Some people rank bathrooms (no really, they do) at the city’s best eateries. The thing is, I don’t know these people, and secretly, I’m kind of relieved. 


For me, restaurants are about something else. I love to go to great ones, glorious places where each and every dish is perfect in a way you hadn’t considered before. Cranberry beans in an artichoke cup? I’m so glad I’ve met you. Seared quartered baby artichokes with pistachios, mache and manchego cheese? Two weeks without you makes me sad. Tabla’s Indian-spiced popcorn? It’s pathetic, but you can actually make my day. In their own ways, restaurants have become my muse. Thus, I didn’t just want to go to The Little Owl for my birthday Monday night because a friend had raved about it after her Food & Wine holiday party, I wanted to go because one glance at the constantly-changing menu told me I’d be brimming with new ideas when I left. 

with roasted tomato, jalapeno and onion puree 

And was I! I didn’t even know what fideos was when I walked in there, and in the days since, it’s been every other word out of my mouth. Fideos. Fideos. Fiddle me some fideos! Monday night, they served them with a tomato-y broth-based sauce (yes, I know that’s not exactly the most articulate description, but that’s the way I noted it in my head) with red peppers, barely cooked, fresh fava beans, black olives and wee clumps of cooked-in melted cheese, and there was a squiggle of a smoky red pepper sauce next to it. I loved it to pieces. I ate it embarrassingly fast. I vowed to make it the very next time I cooked, which because no birthday week is complete without a trip to the Bread Bar, brought us to Wednesday. 

I resorted to an old Rick Bayless recipe for guidance, which is unfortunate, you see, because I obviously suffered some memory loss around the last time I used a Bayless recipe. Last year, the New York Times had run his recipe for chipotle meatballs, which piqued my taste buds so fiercely that I had to make it that very evening. The following week, the Times printed a correction that no, you were not supposed to use one to two cans of chipotle as they’d originally dictated, but one to two canned chipotles and ha, ha, ha, oh, I’d gotten the memo, but the evil, mouth-searing, food-went-in-the-trash kind of way. Now, the Times blames an “editing error” so I suppose he should get a pass, but, well, there Rick and I were again Wednesday night, his single charred jalapeÃƒÂ±o* somehow so fiercely over-spiced I thought a single bite would kill me. I ended up adding a cup of tomato puree in hopes to dampen its singeing effect, but in the end it only slightly helped. 

fideos with favas and red peppers 

It’s a shame, because I think half, or a quarter of that chile would have made for a delicious dish. I love this fideos idea, sauteing fine noodles until they are browned, tangling them up with other seasonal ingredients. I loved it on my plate at the restaurant, and when I could ignore my mouth’s screaming for an ice cube, or any such relief, I loved it at home. But I’d approach that whole jalapeno with caution next time, as even my Tobasco-fiending husband felt the spice was above and beyond. 

Speaking of Alex, he has been nudging me for days to please, please please tell you that Smitten Kitchen has been nominated by the lovely folks at Culinate.com for their Grill Me contest in a chance to win a trip to Napa Valley and take a grill master class with two pros, and I get to take a guest if I win. (Yes, that’s where he comes in.) So, um, if you feel like contributing to the effort to send me and Alex to Napa, baby, Napa, just press this wee little button to the right and, well, you know the drill. From the bottom of our grill-obsessed gullets, we thank you. 

Update: People, thank you so much for your mind-blowing response to this! You’re so rad. So, you’re not going to believe this but for the second week of the contest, Culinate is letting people vote a second time. For real! So, you can vote again for your favorite blogger and everything, and by golly, well, I think we all know where Alex and I stand on this, but you should go and vote your conscience, okay? 

Fideos with Favas, Red Peppers and Black Olives 
Inspired by The Little Owl, but no doubt, lacking resemblance to the original 

1 large tomato 
1 large jalapeno 
1 small onion, coarsely chopped 
1 clove garlic 
6 sprigs cilantro 
Large handful of fresh beans, in their pods 
1/4 cup canola oil 
7 ounces short angel hair noodles, or longer strands broken into one to two-inch pieces 
2 cups chicken stock 
2 red bell peppers, cut into matchsticks 
1/2 to 2/3 cup pitted black olives, coarsely chopped 
Cotija or queso blanco, shredded 

Heat a dry cast iron skillet (or ungreased skillet) over medium-low heat until a drop of water sizzles on contact. Place the tomato and jalapeno in the pan and cook turning frequently, until the skins are blistered all over, about 15 minutes. Remove the tomato into a mixing bowl to catch the juices. Place the chile in a paper bag and let rest for 10 minutes. 

Meanwhile, prepare the fava beans. Remove them from their large outer pods, and blanche them in boiling salted water for one to two minutes. Drop them in an ice bath, then remove their light-colored skins, revealing the edible fava bean within. Set aside. 

When the chile is cool enough to handle, peel of the charred skin and halve it, reserving the other half for another use. Place the tomato, onion, garlic, cilantro, and half chile in a blender, or food processor, and process until smooth, about 1 minute, set aside. 

Pour the oil into a dutch oven or medium saucepan over medium-high heat until it ripples, add the pasta and cook, stirring constantly, until golden. Remove all but 2 tablespoons of oil, add the pureed tomato and chile mixture, and cook for 2 minutes, stirring continually. Add the chicken stock and bring to a simmer. Cover and cook for 10 to 12 minutes, ensuring there is a bit of liquid left in the pot. Add the prepared favas, olives and red peppers, stirring them in and replace the lid for another few minutes cooking time, or until the liquid is absorbed. Serve with shredded cheese, giving it a good stir to make sure it has melted and merged with the ingredients. 

* Could someone explain to me how I can add a whole jalapeno to a salad or pico de gallo, and the bite is mild at best, but somehow this whole one that’s cooked for a significant amount of time (isn’t that supposed to dull it’s knife-like effect?), it’s fiercely inedible? Because I’d sure like to figure this one out. 

START RECIPE
four cool things plus white bean stew 
MARCH 12, 2008 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
It only took us four months, but we have finally set up a store where those of you who are interested can buy prints of our photos. We ordered a couple of prints a few weeks ago to verify that the quality was what we had hoped, and were pleased with the results. We hope that you will be too. We’ve ed some of our favorite photos, but if there are any photos from our Flickr page or from this site’s archives that you’d like to purchase, just let us know and we’ll add it to the store. Unfortunately, you will find that many of our older pictures are not big enough to yield more than a small print–believe me, we’re kicking ourselves too! [The Smitten Kitchen Photo Store]  

smitten kitchen on smugmug 

If you’ve made a recipe from this site and left a note about it in the comments, created a link to it from your blog, or tagged it with “smittenkitchen” on Flickr, I have probably checked it out because I simply love to see how these things work out for you, and what you may have done to adapt it. However, this is not the most efficient system, so when a brilliant commenter suggested yesterday that we create a smitten kitchen Flickr photo pool, I jumped right on it. This group is open to anyone who posts pictures on Flickr, and I can’t wait to see what you add to it. And yes, bonus points will be awarded for pictures of said baked goods accompanied by puppies or babies. [Smitten Kitchen Recipes Photo Pool] 
Dedicated food bloggers Elise, Kalyn and Alanna teamed up to create something I think the Web has been missing for some time: a custom food blog search engine. Powered by only the best–Google Search–it includes results from over one thousand food blogs. Nowhere but food blogs will you see recipes tested and reviewed with such enthusiasm and imagery. I use this resource so often, I put a widget for it in the sidebar, as well, but you can just bookmark the foodblogsearch.com. The darling imagery was created by Loberstersquad’s Ximena. [FoodBlogSearch.com, a custom search engine]
can beans be hot? 

And finally, my newest overdue obsession: Rancho Gordo. It has been over a year since I promised that I would forevermore soak my beans with glee and ebullience as I have seen the light of freshly soaked beans at last. Sadly, this didn’t last long. I found that the beans I could get at various reputable stores were terribly unreliable–they didn’t get soft, their skins flaked, their flavor lacked: in short: they were on the shelf too long. Enter Rancho Gordo, an heirloom bean grower out of Napa Valley, which I have read so much about but was cautious to buy something so particular from so far away. I’m glad I got over it because these beans are delicious. There’s no comparison. I started with the European Sampler but you’d better believe I’ll be getting some of their Mexican/Latin Sampler soon. 

runner cannellini 

I used my first batch of Runner Cannellini beans to make a Fast White Bean Stew I’ve had bookmarked from Gourmet Magazine for some time. The results were… good enough for a Tuesday night, if you know what I mean. I needed more zip, in my mind… some smoky spicy Spanish paprika, red pepper flakes, a glug of vinegar or wine, less broth. I haven’t gotten back to it to figure it out, but I suspect that one or several of you will come up with something brilliant. Only the show stopper beans saved it. It has ham in it, but this could be easily skipped if you’re vegetarian or rendered extra-carnivorous with sausage. I used spinach, but I think that a heavier green, if cooked longer, could work as well. In summary: use this recipe only as guidance and hit it up with your creativity.  

fast white bean stew 

Soaking Dried Beans 

Rancho Gordo wants soaking beans to be less complicated that it is made out to be. There is no one method, they tell you–just simmer them until they are soft. Soaking them first can speed up the process, vegetables or stock can make them more flavorful, but in the end–and especially if you’re using their delicious beans–you could do neither and still have a stunning dish. 

I used the cooking method outlined on their site, but to summarize: 

If you can, presoak the beans for a few hours, overnight or up to a day. Put the beans and their soaking water to a large pot–there is no reason to discard the soaking water. Bring the pot to a full boil for five minutes, before reducing the heat as low as you can possibly go so that bubbles will still appear. Depending on the size of your bean and the amount of time you have soaked them, they should be ready in between two or three hours. 

Fast White Bean Stew 
Adapted from Gourmet, January 2007 

As I mentioned above, this stew is completely edible but a wee lackluster. Do consider kicking it up, as they say, with spices and extra ingredients. 

2 large garlic cloves, chopped 
1/4 cup plus 1/2 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil 
1 (14- to 15-oz) can stewed tomatoes 
1 3/4 cups reduced-sodium chicken broth 
2 (19-oz) cans cannellini beans, rinsed and drained (3 cups) 
1 (1/2-lb) piece baked ham (1/2 to 3/4 inch thick), cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
1/4 teaspoon black pepper 
1 (5-oz) bag baby romaine (er, what? I used spinach) or baby arugula (10 cups loosely packed) 
8 (3/4-inch-thick) slices baguette 

Cook garlic in 1/4 cup oil in a 3 1/2- to 4 1/2-quart heavy pot over moderately high heat, stirring, until golden, 1 to 2 minutes. Coarsely cut up tomatoes in can with kitchen shears, then add (with juice) to garlic in oil. Stir in broth, beans, ham, and pepper and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, 5 minutes. Stir in greens and cook until wilted, 3 minutes for romaine or 1 minute for arugula. 

While stew is simmering, preheat broiler. Put bread on a baking sheet and drizzle with remaining 1/2 tablespoon oil. Broil 3 to 4 inches from heat until golden, 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. 

Serve stew with toasts. 

START RECIPE
gazpacho salad 
OCTOBER 5, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
A small miracle happened in our apartment this week: we paid someone to clean it, and seriously, you could lick the floors [but of course, really shouldn’t for a reason that rhymes with Shmatatouille, not that I really want to get into it]. 

I have spent too much of my adult life trapped in this faux-Buddhist state of thou shalt clean thy own messes: it’s good for you, I reasoned. Cleaning should be a Zen experience. Please, stop laughing. Quit it.


Needless to say, at some point between work and more work, errands and, I don’t know, waking up on Saturday mornings with a desire to leave the apartment and not scrub the edges of it, our little penthouse turned into a place we were not exactly proud of. And when you are as obsessive as I am, this is a very bad thing. I’d look around the apartment before I left each morning and sigh: this is not what I wanted for us, and come home too tired to do anything but sigh at it again. 

chopping tomatoes, tomato knifekirby cucumber 

Let me tell you, if you have a Jocelyn, and by that I mean a friend who has been nagging you for years to use her awesome, amazing cleaning lady, listen to her. Because forget Buddha: I will now worship at the altar of a spotless apartment. I am a whole new me! A real weight has been lifted, and with no nagging sense that there is something we always have to do, that will never, ever get done, and what’s the point, lets just  Top Chef… we are free to do the things that we really want to do, which turn out to be moronic things like marveling over the fact that I think she polished the vacuum cleaner. And the light switch panels. Thank god they don’t just dole out free time to people who use it wisely. 

Anyway, the best way I can think of sharing my new-found clean slate with you is to cop to some recipes I’ve been holding back for a few weeks, both from that cookbook you will never hear the end of, The New Spanish Table. The first called my name from the first time I cracked the book open: Gazpacho salad. Seriously, it’s like Spanish panzanella, with all of the flavors of gazpacho but none of that cold soup-ness. (Yes, a staunch aversion to cold soups are yet another one of my food oddities.) Something happens when those cumin seeds hit the croutons, and weeks later, I’m still craving that flavor combination. 

The second is a lentil salad for people who are thinking, lentils? In a salad? How dreadfully healthy! Well, this lentil salad is has your name all over it, because it’s lentil to chorizo ratio is practically one-to-one. (Honestly, it’s not very pretty but you won’t care once you try it.) And really, is there anything more you need to know? 

Now if you’ll excuse me, I need to go back to admiring our spotless nest. It’s so clean, I think it echoes. 

oooh, chorizochorizo salad 

Elsewhere: I bet you’re so sick of hearing about me, me, me, right? Oh, you’re not? Well, then. The lovely Ganda has interviewed me for her Friday “You Are What You Eat” column. Yes, I thought she only did important people, too! Nonetheless, come over to find out what is always in our fridge: stay for the quince-pear butter. Thanks, Ganda! 

One year ago: Pumpernickel Bread (This is a wonderful, light pumpernickel. However, if you like yours darker and more intense, I would point you instead to this Russian Black Bread recipe.) 

Gazpacho Salad 
Adapted from The New Spanish Table 

Serves 4 

2 1/2 cups cubed day-old dense country bread (1-inch cubes) 
2 medium-size garlic cloves, chopped 
1 large pinch of coarse salt (Kosher or sea) 
1 small pinch of cumin seeds 
3 tablespoons sherry vinegar, preferably aged, or best-quality red wine vinegar, or more to taste 
1/3 cup fragrant extra-virgin olive oil 
1 2/3 pounds very ripe but firm tomatoes, cut into 3/4-inch cubes 
2 small Kirby (pickling) cucumbers, cored, seeded and diced 
1/2 cup finely chopped white onion 
1/2 cup seedless green grapes, cut in half 
About 1/2 cup slivered fresh mint or basil (optional) 

1.	Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. 

2.	Arrange the bread cubes in a single layer on a large rimmed baking sheet and bake until they are just beginning to turn golden, 8 to 10 minutes, stirring once. Lead the bread cubes cool. 
3.	Place the garlic, salt, and cumin in a mortar and, using a pestle, mash them into a paste. Add the vinegar and olive oil and whisk to mix. 

4.	Place the toasted bread and the tomatoes, cucumbers, Italian pepper, onion, grapes, and mint, if using, in a large bowl and toss to mix. Add the dressing to the salad and toss to combine well. Let the salad stand for 5 to 10 minutes before serving to allow the bread to soak up the dressing. 

Lentil Salad with Chorizo and Jamon Crisps 
The New Spanish Table 

Serves 4 to 6 

1 small onion 
3 medium-size garlic cloves, peeled 
3 fresh flat-leaf parsley sprigs, plus 1/4 cup chopped parsley 
1 bay leaf 
1 cup green or brown lentils (see Note) 
Extra-virgin olive oil 
1/2 pound sweet Spanish-style chorizo sausage, diced medium-fine 
2 ounces thinly sliced serrano ham or proscuitto 
2 tablespoon sherry vinegar, preferably aged (we, of course, used more) 
1 tablespoon best-quality red wine vinegar 
1 tablespoon chicken stock or broth, or water 
1 teaspoon honey 
Coarse salt (kosher or sea) and freshly ground black pepper 
3 medium-size firm tomatoes, peeled, seeded and chopped 
1/4 cup finely slices scallions, both white and green parts 

1.	Place the onion, garlic, parsley sprigs, and bay leaf in a double layer of cheesecloth and tie it shut. 

2.	Place the lentils in a medium-size saucepan and add enough cold water to cover them by 3 inches. Bring to a boil over high heat. Skim the foam off thoroughly, add the cheesecloth bag, and reduce the heat to medium low. Simmer until the lentils are tender, 15 to 18 minutes. Drain the lentils. (If you are making the lentils ahead, toss them with a little olive oil. They will keep for up to 2 days, covered, in the refrigerator. Let them come to room temperature before continuing with the recipe.) 

3.	Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in medium-size skillet over medium-high heat. Add the chorizo and cook, stirring, until nicely browned and beginning to crisp, about 5 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the chorizo to paper towels to drain and keep warm. 

4.	Pour olive oil to a depth of 1/2 inch in a small skillet and heat over medium heat until almost smoking. Add the ham slices, one at a time, and cook until shriveled and crisp about 30 seconds, transferring the cooked slices to paper towels to drain. (Deb warning: This step made our apartment very smoky. Proceed with caution. If you really want to skip this, you could crisp it in the oven instead, on parchment-lined baking sheets.) 

5.	Place 3 tablespoons olive oil, the sherry vinegar, red wine vinegar, chicken stock, and honey in a small microwave-safe bowl and stir to mix. Microwave on high power for 30 seconds, then season the vinaigrette with salt and pepper to taste. 

6.	Place the drained lentils, chorizo, tomatoes, chopped parsley, scallions and warm vinaigrette in a large bowl and toss to mix. Crumble the crisp ham slices into medium-size pieces, toss some with the salad, scatter rest on top, and serve. 

Note: If you are using Spanish pardinas, they will need to soak overnight before being cooked. Goya brand pardinas do not need to be soaked, despite what it says on the package. 

START RECIPE
hibernation fare 
JANUARY 22, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
It must be cold outside or something because all I have wanted as of late is the kind of grub that sticks to your ribs and sends you into a food cocoon for hours. It’s an odd sensation for a girl who hates feeling weighted down after a meal, and yet, salad has seemed an insult to freezing fingers and chapped lips, thin soups a cry for help and even my favorite dumplings have seemed too bright and springy this week. Go away, you peppy foods, I declare, and don’t come back until I can feel my toes. 


Saturday morning I made another of those frittatas I’d mentioned a couple weeks back, hoping those potatoes, bacon and eggs with a toasted English muffin would make the icy breeze in Brooklyn less cruel and unforgivable, but no dice. (Though we loved it, despite all that, and I encourage you to design your own favorite frittata with on-hand ingredients.) We returned in the evening with intent make a reservation at whichever fireplace-d and cozy restaurant would take us but when first through fourth choices failed to see our charms, we started reminiscing about that three-bean chili I used to make with cheddar-jalapeno cornbread and suddenly, the idea of smarting up and going to a restaurant seemed utterly ridiculous. Go out? But why? We stayed in, spiced up and let Jennifer Hudson croon a hole in our speakers with a top-secret copy of Dreamgirls, happy as clams. 

chili night 

Having learned my lesson leaving the apartment to, like, do things on Saturday and being rewarded with only a frosty nose, I fought it tooth-and-nail on Sunday, going back to bed twice after waking up because climbing into a tangle of heavy blankets is simply the best sensation on earth and I’ve resolved to not limit this joy to just once a day anymore. At 3 p.m., we finally rolled out, but only to hit the gym and the Hellmouth that is Whole Foods before friends came over at 8. I scrambled a bit, short on time when we got home, tearing casings off sausages, chopping everything haphazardly, cranking out thick ribbons of varying-width pappardelle, calling instructions to my sous-chef and not measuring a whole lot but thankfully, big ragus are less of a set recipe and more of a suggestion, I think. Or so it was last night. 

cheddar, chili and green onion corn bread three-bean chili, cheddar-jalapeno cornbread 

This recipe makes a shocking amount of food — with the pasta, our 7.5 quart Cocotte was filled nearly to the brim — made doubly scary by the fact that even half a bowl could make you so full, you’d swear off food for good. Or, at least until the grapefruit cake came out. We keep a special compartment in our bellies (though I believe mine is closer to my arse) that allows us to be too gutted for another speck of dinner but a wee slice of cake, if you insist, knows just where to go. I consider it a gift. Stuffed to our very gills with crumbled sausage and thick peels of pasta, the oddest sensation came over us — Warmth! Glorious warmth! — and though it might be just that they’ve finally turned up the heat in our building, I’d rather think it’s the rib-sticking grub. 

pappardelle with sausage, tomatoes and mushrooms 

(I should probably note here that neither the chili nor the cornbread came out to my liking. I dumped the wrong texture tomato, and also too much, into the pot — below I have the corrected recipe — and the cornbread, well, I’ve needed a new recipe for a while but in the absence of one, went back to the one I found adequate enough. Gosh, doesn’t this make you really want to try these recipes? Such marketing!) 

Deb’s Three-Bean Chili 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1 humongous onion, diced 
1 15-ounce can of pinto beans, drained and rinsed 
1 15-ounce can of black beans, drained and rinsed 
1 15-ounce can of kidney beans, drained and rinsed 
1 28-ounce plus one 15-ounce can diced tomatoes 
1 cup water or stock 
2 tablespoons chili powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 
1 teaspoon ground coriander 
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa 
1 minced chipotle in adobo, from a can, or if your store is out, ahem, 1/4 teaspoon cayenne will do (the amount here will add a nice kick so tune it up or down according to your tastes: the type and brand of chili powder you use will also affect the heat) 
Salt and pepper, to taste 
Sliced green onions, for garnish 

Ingredients you might add, if you are not me: Peppers or ground beef (with the onions), fresh cilantro (stirred in at the very end)

Heat vegetable oil in a large pot, adding diced onion and sauteing until browned. Add beans, tomatoes, water or stock and spices, including cocoa, all at once, letting mixture simmer for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Adjust seasonings to taste.

Corn Bread with Cheddar, Jalapeno and Green Onions 
Adapted from Mark Bittman 

1 1/4 cups buttermilk, milk or yogurt (or 1 1/4 cups milk and 1 tablespoon white vinegar — see Step 2 below) plus more as need 
2 tablespoons butter, olive oil, lard or bacon drippings 
1 1/2 cups (about 7 ounces) medium-grind cornmeal 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon sugar, plus more if you like sweet cornbread 
1 eggs 

1.	Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.
2.	If you are using buttermilk, milk or yogurt, ignore this step. If you want to use soured milk (a good substitute for buttermilk), warm the milk gently — one minute in the microwave is sufficient, just enough to take the chill off — and add the vinegar. Let it rest while you prepare the other ingredients. 
3.	Place the fat in a medium oven-proof skillet or in an 8-inch square baking pan over medium heat (Deb note: would you believe I lack both? I used three of my mini-loaf pans): heat until good and hot, about 2 minutes, then turn off the heat. Meanwhile, combine the dry ingredients in a bowl. Mix the egg into the buttermilk, milk or soured milk. Stir the liquid mixture into the dry ingredients, combining well: if it seems too dry, add another tablespoon or two of milk. Pour the batter into the preheated fat, smooth out the top if necessary, and place in the oven. 
4.	Bake about 30 minutes, or until the top is lightly brown and the sides have pulled away from the pan: a toothpick inserted into the center will come out clean. Serve hot or warm. 

Optional additions I used: One cup canned creamed corn, one cup grated extra-sharp cheddar, two thinly sliced scallions, and 1 tablespoon chili powder, but only because the store was out of jalapenos. I usually mince one in. 

Optional additions I didn’t use: 1 tablespoon cumin (instead of chili powder): 1 cup fresh corn (instead of creamed): molasses or honey, in place of the sugar, about 1/4 cup: minced herbs such as cilantro or fresh parsley, 2 tablespoons: sautéed onions, shallots or leeks, about 1/2 cup. 

Pasta with Sausage, Tomatoes and Mushrooms 
Adapted from Eccoqui Restaurant in Bernardsville, NJ via Bon Appetit 

Makes (at least) 8 servings. 

2 1/2 pounds Italian sweet sausages, casings removed, crumbled (Deb note: we replaced this with some sweet, and some spicy Italian chicken and turkey sausages) 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 1/2 pounds mushrooms, thickly sliced 
3 cups chopped onions 
1 1/2 cups chopped fresh basil 
1/4 cup chopped fresh oregano 
6 large garlic cloves, chopped 
1 cup dry white wine 
5 cups canned crushed tomatoes with added puree 
2 cups diced tomatoes (about 4 medium-large tomatoes) 
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) butter 
1 1/4 pounds pappardelle or mafaldine pasta (or any wide, flat noodles)* 
1 1/2 cups grated pecorino Romano cheese (about 4 1/2 ounces) 

Saute sausage in heavy large pot over medium-high heat until brown, about 12 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer sausage to large bowl. Add oil to drippings in pot. Add mushrooms and onions: saute until tender and brown, about 15 minutes. Stir in 1 cup chopped basil, oregano, and garlic: saute 1 minute. Add wine: cook until almost absorbed, about 4 minutes. Add sausage and crushed tomatoes: cover and simmer over medium heat until thickened, about 25 minutes. Add diced tomatoes and butter: simmer until tomatoes are soft, stirring frequently, about 15 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool slightly. Chill uncovered until cold, then cover and refrigerate. Bring to simmer before continuing.) 

Cook pasta in large pot of boiling salted water until tender but still firm to bite, stirring occasionally. Drain well: return to pot. Pour sauce over pasta: toss to coat. Add 1/2 cup cheese and 1/2 cup basil: toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper. Transfer pasta to serving dish. 

Serve, passing remaining cheese separately. 

* I made pappardelle with my now-standard pasta recipe, cranking it out to level 5 thinness, which may have in the end been a little thick, but held up well in the hearty sauce. I cut it by hand into wide, completely uneven strips with a ravioli wheel. It cooked in about 6 minutes. 

START RECIPE
hot and smoky baked beans 
JULY 20, 2006 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I think that the basic instinct that gets us in the kitchen “after all those messy sustenance issues have been attended to” is a deep-seated desire to make something taste a little better than the way we’ve come to accept it. It’s why there are ten thousand crab cake recipes and a line of followers behind each, and it’s why everyone has an idea carved into their base philosophy of the way corn bread is supposed to taste (and most of it fails to please because it’s not as savory/rich, sweet/cakey or textural/salty as they believe pone was intended to be). I’d also argue that this is why few bother to make their own ketchup, as Heinz figured out a long time ago what most of us expect of it and why reinvent the wheel? 


hot and smoky baked beans 

I’m pretty sure it’s why this summer I’ve become obsessed bordering-on-frenzied with figuring out how to make all those American BBQ classics unboring. Somewhere along the line, barbeque sauce started tasting like tangy corn syrup, coleslaw started tasting like soggy dullsville, potato salad became a boiled-tuber-floating-in-eggy-oil cop-out, and baked beans became wretchedly sweet and uniform, each crying out for some innovation. But today, I’m starting with the beans. 

And what beans they are! These chipotle baked beans are everything your last can of baked beans thought it was going be when it grew up. They’re spicy and complex and dramatic. They were also finished in two meals, and we sang the “beans, beans” song the whole time. Don’t say I didn’t warn you. 

Hot and Smoky Baked Beans 
Bon Appetit, July 1999 

6 bacon slices* 
1 1/2 cups chopped onion 
1 1/4 cups purchased barbecue sauce 
3/4 cup dark beer 
1/4 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses 
3 tablespoons Dijon mustard 3 tablespoons (packed) dark brown sugar 
2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
4 to 6 teaspoons minced canned chipotle chilies** 
6 15- to 16-ounce cans Great Northern beans, drained 
Chopped fresh parsley*** 

Preheat oven to 350°F. Cook bacon in large skillet over medium heat until crisp. Transfer to paper towels and drain. Transfer 2 1/2 tablespoons bacon drippings from skillet to large bowl. Finely chop bacon: add to bowl. Add onion and next 7 ingredients to bowl and whisk to blend. Whisk in 4 to 6 teaspoons chipotle chilies, depending on spiciness desired. Stir in beans. Transfer bean mixture to 13 x 9 x 2-inch glass baking dish. Bake uncovered until liquid bubbles and thickens slightly, about 1 hour. Cool 10 minutes. 

* So, this is where I admit that despite my love of all things salty and pork-ful, I skipped the the bacon. [Blashphemy!] Even the best of bacon gets a leathery unappetizing texture when in a wet base for a period of time, thus, it was omitted. 
** And this is where I warn you, in italics no less, that this is a LOT of chipotle. I used 1 (one!) large one in the whole dish and it was tres spicy. Add what you see fit, but I’d suggest sparingly. 
*** Might have forgotten this: the world did not end. 

START RECIPE
lentil and chickpea salad with feta and tahini 
APRIL 1, 2013 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I have an uneven history with chef cookbooks. I have learned the hard way more often than I’ve wished to that just because I might enjoy sitting down at someone’s restaurant table does not mean that their work will translate into an enjoyable home cooking experience — you know, one without sous-chefs and dishwashers, plural, at ones disposal, and a customer base footing the bill for the Himalayan pink salt. The best of these books make for wonderful reading and bring the fresh air of a new flavors and tricks into your home cooking routine but the worst, well, yikes. You’re not getting those hours back.


onion, tahini, lentils, chickpeas, spice, lemon, sage, garlic 
cooking lentils de puy with sage, garlic 

So, despite the fact that I gushed about The Breslin nearly a year ago and also in an interview for Amazon, and even though I’ve fussed over The Spotted Pig, I didn’t even consider picking up chef April Bloomfield’s* book, A Girl and Her Pig because the odds felt slim that it would provide me with anything close to the joy that her cooking does at a dark table in the Ace Hotel, with a grapefruit gin-and-tonic (swoon) in my hand.

toasting corriander and cumin seeds 

goya chickpeas, you complete me 
toasted sesame seeds, tahini dressing, toasted ground spices 

And then her book swept mine in the final round of a cookbook competition and I knew from reading the gushing praise bestowed on it by an entire series of independent reviewers that I was the one missing out. When I bought the book last week, I immediately ran off to the back room to hide with it for a while and proceeded to fall deeply, immensely in love. Bloomfield might be known for her nose-to-tail cookery but time and again, it’s her way with vegetables and one-off dishes that blow me away. From the earliest pages, she taunts you with Squash and Pancetta Toasts, Toasts with Ramp Butter and Fried Quail Eggs, a stack of lacy-thin crepe pancakes with Bacon and Chilis, a spring vegetable soup with everything from Jersualem Artichokes to white beans and vinegary Devilled Eggs. It doesn’t hurt that her go-to favorite ingredients seem to overlap with mine (lemon, feta, garlic, cumin, sesame, and flaky sea salt) but it makes it even more fun that she had me, within a day, reaching outside my comfort zone
to track down rice grain-sized dried pequin chilies in New York, pulling the green germs out of the center of garlic cloves and pulling down my dusty, mostly ignored, coffee grinder so that I could find out why she gushed so much about the flavor of freshly toasted and ground spices.

red onion with lemon juice, salt, and soon, feta 
mixing the lentils, chickpeas and dressing 

I realize at the outset the prospect of a lentil and chickpea salad doesn’t sound very intriguing. It sounds like the kind of thing you’d eat because you ought to, and “ought to’s” rarely make for delicious eating. But she uses a series of techniques to make these humble ingredients one of the most intense and complexly flavored salad experiences I’ve ever made at home. Thank goodness.

lentil and chickpea salad  

Making the salad might seem pesky. You toast whole spices and grind them. The onions have one treatment, the lentils another, the dressing a third and I seriously read the plating instructions four times (given, I had a yelling three year-old nearby, but hey, that’s real life innit?) and I still couldn’t make sense of why it had to be so complicated. And while this is usually the point where I say, “I simplified it for you! You’ll make it in less time than I did!” we hadn’t even finished our first bite before I realized I didn’t want to. I’ll suggest places here and there where corners can be cut without taking away from the recipe’s central awesomeness, but I also think that if you can find a little extra time to putter in the kitchen, you’ll find brilliance in the way she wrote it. And that, really, is the fun of trying new recipes, right?

lentil and chickpea salad 

* I have a favor to : On the cover of her book, April Bloomfield stands with a dead pig slung across her shoulders. I realize that this isn’t for everyone. Not everyone eats meat, those who do may not eat pork products, and even those who do may not want to see their food staring back at them. But whenever I’ve read a review of or discussion about her book, inevitably, a slew of comments will say “Eeeewwww!” and — it shouldn’t, I should just tune it out, move on with my life — it drives me batty. Please keep in mind that Bloomfield hails from the nose-to-tail cooking school: she works with animals that were as humanely raised as possible and uses every part. She gives the animals she cooks the most respect a chef can, and there is absolutely nothing wrong with feeling that it’s still not for you — nobody is saying that you must find great joy in looking at dead animals, or that you have to look at all — but yelling “icky!” at someone who eats or cooks something you don’t like is never going to be the way to begin a grown-up conversation about things that matter. Trust me. I have a three year-old: I know about these things. 

One year ago: Raspberry-Coconut Macaroons 
Two years ago: Spaetzle 
Three years ago: Baked Kale Chips and Almond Macaroon Torte with Chocolate Frosting 
Four years ago: Beef Empanadas, Homemade Chocolate Wafers + Icebok Cupcakes and Bialys 
Five years ago: Chicken with Almonds and Green Olives and Swiss Easter Rice Tart 
Six years ago: Risotto al Barolo, Rich Buttermilk Waffles and Argula Ravioli 

Lentil and Chickpea Salad with Feta and Tahini 
ed, just a bit, from April Bloomfield’s A Girl and Her Pig 

I promised to list places where I felt the recipe could be streamlined. For example, I don’t think that a tremdendous amount will be lost if you don’t cook your lentils with garlic cloves and sage. (Though, they tasted and smelled amazing when I did.) You could use spices already ground: I’d use 1/3 to 1/2 of each if so. (But, my heavens, they were bursting with flavor when I started whole.) You could probably press your garlic clove rather than mashing it to a paste with salt in a mortar or on a cutting board. I simplified the assembly process a little and actually skipped the preserved lemon because neither my husband nor I are very into them, and hey, we’re the ones eating the dish. I used sheep’s milk feta instead of goat, because that’s what I usually have around (Bulgarian and French are my favorite types, if you can find either). And I used parsley instead of cilantro.

But, I can also promise this: Should you feel like spending a little bit of extra time in the kitchen this week, there’s so much to absorb here, from the amazing background sage, garlic and olive oil infuse tiny green lentils with, from the roasty depth of pan-toasted, finely ground spices, the sweet nuttiness of sesame seeds, toasted two shades darker, to almost pickling red onion slices with lemon juice. This salad, made as written, was more layered and complex than I ever imagined a legume salad being, and it made my week.

Lentils 
Scant 1 cup dried green lentils (Puy or Casteluccio, if you can find them) lentils, picked and rinsed over 
2 large garlic cloves, halved lengthwise 
2 fresh sage sprigs 
2 tablespoons olive oil 

For the dressing and salad 
2 teaspoons coriander seeds, toasted and ground** 
1 teaspoon cumin seeds, toasted and ground** 
1/2 large garlic clove 
Salt (Maldon or another flaky sea salt if you’ve got it) 
2 tablespoons well-stirred tahini paste 
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice, plus more to taste 
2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons olive oil 
1 and 3/4 cups drained chickpeas (from a 15-ounce can), low sodium if you can find them 
1/2 small preserved lemon, pith and flesh discarded, rind finely diced (optional) 
1 very small red onion, thinly sliced into half-moons 
A handful of small, delicate cilantro or flat-leaf parsley sprigs 
A scant 1/4 cup feta (goat’s milk if you can find it, otherwise use what you can get) 
1 and 1/2 tablespoons raw sesame seeds, toasted in a dry pan until a shade or two darker 

Make the lentils: Put the lentils, garlic, sage, and olive oil in a small pot, along with 2 cups cold water, and set it over medium heat. Let the water come to a simmer (not boiling), then turn the heat to low and cook the lentils in a very gentle simmer just until they are tender — April recommends 25 minutes, but mine took 35 and needed a touch more water at the end. Take the pan off the heat and let the lentils cool a bit before draining them. Pick out and discard the sage and garlic. You’ll have about 2 cups cooked lentils. 

Make the dressing: Mix together the ground coriander and cumin in a small bowl. Mash the garlic clove to a paste with 1 teaspoon salt (use half as much Kosher salt, even less table salt) on a cutting board or in a mortar. In a small bowl for your dressing, combined the mashed garlic, tahini, 3 tablespoons of the lemon juice, 2 tablespoons of the olive oil, 1 teaspoon of the ground coriander-and-cumin mixture and 2 tablespoons water. Stir well, then taste. Add more lemon if desired. 

Assemble the salad: Place onion slices in a medium bowl and break them up with your fingers. Sprinkle in two good pinches of salt, then two teaspoons of lemon juice, two remaining teaspoons of olive oil and the cilantro or parsley. Toss well, then crumble in the cheese and gently toss again. 

Toss the lentils with the drained chickpeas, preserved lemon rind (if using), and 1 teaspoon flaky sea salt (use half as much Kosher salt, even less table salt) in a large mixing bowl. Pour in the tahini dressing and toss it all together really well, then stir in the onion-feta mixture. 

Arrange the salad in bowl or platter. Sprinkle the mixture with the sesame seeds and some of the remaining spices. Serve, and don’t forget to share. 

P.S. We had this with a Simple Potato Gratin (a post I’m itching to update even more simply, and less hideously, but the important stuff is there) and lamb chops (may I recommend these?). 

** To toast and grind spices: Put the spices, one at a time, in a small dry pan over medium-high heat. Toast, shaking the pan frequently, until the spices become very sweet and fragrant, anywhere from 2 to 4 minutes. Let them cool in a bowl or on a small plate and grind in a mortar and pestle or in a coffee grinder. 

START RECIPE
lentil soup with sausage, chard and garlic 
JANUARY 22, 2013 JUMP TO RECIPE, COMMENTS 
Every year around this time — well into the winter season, but long after we found it charmingly brisk, as it is when you do googly-eyed things like ice skating around a sparkling tree at the holidays — we get some sort of brittle cold snap in the weather that catches me by surprise. Even though we live in New York, a place where a cold snap or two a January is as predictable as being hosed by some unspeakably awful puddle of street juice slush by a car spinning through an intersection: even though I’ve lived in this exact climate for every one of my thirty-I-don’t-want-to-talk-about-it years: and even though I have the audacity to look forward to winter every sticky concrete-steaming summer, when I walk outside on that first 20-degree day and the wind gusts into my face and renders it hard to exhale, the very first thing I do is audibly holler in rage and disbelief, “WHAT THE WHAT?” I am nothing — as we joke when my sweet little son tries to clomp down the hallway in his dad’s massive boots and immediately  falls on his tush — if not Harvard Material. 


all of this + 24 degrees outside: let's go! 

Weeks like the one we’re having on the East Coast require their own bourbon cocktail plane tickets to someplace tropical and child-free, uh, family-friendly elixir and although I’ve previously found comfort in such meal intensities as lasagna bolognese, chili and mushroom and noodles, glorified, I think this year’s pick — a hearty Lentil Soup with Sausage, Chard and Garlic trumps them all. It hails from the new cookbook from the guy behind one of the first food blogs I ever read, and still do, The Amateur Gourmet. I think you should buy it right this very second. Why? Because in it, Adam Roberts does what he does best — schmooze with great chefs and get them to spill the dirt, all in the name of making us better home cooks. 

[He’s also good at this with less famous, non-chefs, such as yours truly, when he got me to confess to a packed room last month my top-secret, totally-un-PC method of getting toddlers to occasionally eat what you’d like them to, not that I’d be crazy enough to let that happen twice.] 

the easiest simmer 

To write this book, Adam travelled all over the country to visit chefs in their work or home kitchens with a reporter’s notebook and jotted down everything. He learned all sorts of goodies such as why Sara Moulton says you should steel your knives before starting to chop things and how you can tell without sniffing or tasting (or crossing your fingers) whether your butter is still good. Oh, and he’s just getting started. Reading this on a lazy Saturday afternoon before my son decided to start his still ongoing nap strike [our household internal dialogue is something like this right now: noooooooo], I was enrapt as I learned the secret of Jonathan Waxman’s technique for tossing salad and how Alice Water’s “crown” of fresh herbs can make even the simplest olive oil-fried eggs heavenly, plus a font of tips he picked up through observation, such as how chefs manage to use their produce before it gets forgotten and goes bad to (still shocking to me) how sparingly most of them used freshly ground black pepper. 

rainbow chard 

What none of these tips — delightfully, refreshingly — aim to do is intensify the gap between restaurant chefs and home cooks. There’s nobody on a high horse, rolling their eyes at people who prefer to cook from recipes or who benefit from (gasp!) suggested measurements of seasonings. I had very few opportunities to take part in my own eye-rolling-at-chef-recipes pastime, such as when they expect you to use four skillets and eight prep bowls to make a single soup. No, instead this book’s stated goal would, in an ideal world, be the stated goal of every cookbook on the shelves, to be “a prompt, a catalyst for self-reliance in the kitchen.” That it also yielded one of the most delicious, hearty soups that’s ever graced a frigid January day was just the cherry sizzling garlic oil on top. 

lentil soup with sausage, chard, garlic 

One year ago: Buckwheat Baby with Salted Caramel Syrup 
Two years ago: Pizza with Bacon, Onions and Cream and Baked Potato Soup 
Three years ago: Poppy Seed Lemon Cake, Black Bean Soup + Toasted Cumin Seed Crema and Cranberry Syrup (+ An Intensely Almond Cake) 
Four years ago: Squash and Chickpea Moroccan Stew, Vanilla Almond Rice Pudding, Light Wheat Bread, Clementine Cake, Mushroom Bourguignon, Sugar Puffs and Smashed Chickpea Salad 
Five years ago: Crunchy Baked Pork Chops, Pickled Carrot Sticks and Chicken Caesar Salad 
Six years ago: World Peace Cookies, Salade Lyonnaise, Artichoke Ravioli and Leek and Mushroom Quiche 

Lentil Soup with Sausage, Chard and Garlic 
SERVINGS: 6 TIME: ABOUT 1 HOUR SOURCE: GINA DEPALMA VIA SECRETS OF THE BEST CHEFS 

This soup is hearty and intense and the absolutely best remedy for a brittle, cold winter day — a meal in a bowl that also leaves your home smelling amazing. (I kinda wanted to eat the air.) A few other things I liked about it: it didn’t require you to have broth or stock on hand: you only need to use water because the other ingredients are so aromatic and deeply flavored, it’s not necessary. You could easily make it vegetarian by skipping the sausage. And you could veganize it by skipping the sausage and romano cheese. What you are absolutely not allowed to skip is the sizzling garlic oil as a finish. Drizzled onto the bowls at the last minute (especially with the salty romano cheese on top), it raises the bar, unforgettably.
The original recipe calls for “4 large links of sweet Italian sausage” but we always make it with 2 and it feels like the right level: most of you have said the same over the years so I’ve adjusted the recipe accordingly. This works out to roughly 8 ounces of sausage meat.

One P.S. I have a weird aversion to overcooked greens in soups, so only added what I needed right before serving, into the portion we were going to eat. It kept them vibrant, and I kept the leftover greens for today’s eagerly anticipated leftovers.

InstantPot directions added December 2017! 


1/2 cup olive oil, divided 
2 large links (about 8 ounces) of sweet Italian sausage [see Note] 
1 medium onion, diced 
2 celery stalks, sliced or diced 
2 medium carrots, peeled and sliced into half-moons or diced 
4 cloves garlic, sliced (reserve half for later in recipe) 
Kosher salt 
A pinch of crushed red pepper flakes (optional) 
1 cup brown lentils, sorted and rinsed 
2 bay leaves 
1 28-ounce can crushed tomatoes 
6 cups water 
Freshly ground black pepper 
3 to 4 cups shredded or thinly ribboned Swiss chard leaves or kale 
Grated Pecorino Romano cheese to finish 

On the stove: Heat 1/4 cup olive oil (enough to generously coat bottom of pot) in a large pot on medium to medium-high heat. When hot, add the sausage, breaking it up with a wooden spoon until it starts to brown, about five minutes. Add the onion, celery, carrots, first two garlic cloves, a pinch of salt, and if you like your soup spicy, a pinch of red pepper flakes. Cook with the sausage until the vegetables soften a bit, another 5 minutes. Add the lentils, bay leaves, tomatoes, water (6 cups is, conveniently, a little less than 2 empty 28-ounce cans, so you can get any tomato pulp you missed), more salt and black pepper to taste. Bring to a simmer and allow to cook until the lentils are tender, about 40 minutes. (It might be necessary to add more water if the soup gets too thick, though we preferred ours on the thick side.) 
When the lentils are cooked, add the chard and cook until the leaves are tender, just a few minutes more. Discard the bay leaves. 

In an InstantPot or electric multicooker: Proceed as written above, using the sauté function on high (I find this to be like medium-high on a stove) to cook the sausage and then vegetables. Once you’ve added the remaining ingredients, including dried lentils, lock the lid and set to high pressure for 15 minutes. Let it naturally release for at least 10 minutes (or longer, if you have time), to help keep the vegetables intact. You can manually release the rest. Use the sauté function on high again to bring it back to a simmer (this should be take no time at all) and add the greens: cook until wilted. 

Both methods: To finish, divide soup among bowls, then add the remaining 1/4 cup olive oil and 2 garlic cloves to a small skillet (on the stove) and heat over medium until the garlic softens and hisses. Drizzle this over soup bowls, and top with fresh Romano, passing more at the table. Leftovers will keep for several days in the fridge. 

(You could probably do this in an empty multicooker pot too but it feels faster and more efficient to do it on the stove.) 


START RECIPE
pancetta, white bean and chard pot pies 
OCTOBER 16, 2012 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
For the last month or so, my cookbook had been on a boat, an image which delighted me to no end. I pictured it heading to a dock at the edge of a continent, like Arya at the end of Book 3 of Game of Thrones, and hoping that someone would give it passage. I imagined it splashing through waters rough and calm on a long journey, like the one depicted in Lost and Found. And then I imagined it arriving at the shipping docks, unloaded by the likes of handsome Nick Sobotka in Season 2 of The Wire (er, hopefully under happier circumstances), its container being fitted to trucks or rail cars and heading to a warehouse where it would tap its feet impatiently until October 30th arrived and it could finally come out and see you.


And now you know the truth: the inside of my head mostly looks like pages from picture books and scenes from HBO. I don’t know how I hid it so long. 

pretty, pretty rainbow chard 
pancetta, chard and bean pot pie prep 

The first printing did indeed arrive at a warehouse in Maryland last week, but lest you think authorship has any privileges, I have seen but three copies of the book, one that I was allowed to hold briefly on QVC, one that was quickly snatched up by my parents, and a third one disappeared at my husband’s office for a while. The good news is, nobody hates it. The bad news is, people are kind of mad at me. “When did you make this and why didn’t we get any?” they  and oh man, scrambling for answers is getting uncomfortable. My husband ed me this about a vegetarian taco dish that the babysitter and I completely inhaled the second I got the photo I needed, and decided to keep this information to ourselves. (Soo busted.) There’s a potato salad I didn’t share at all, just tucked away in the fridge and had for lunch for a perfect few days. (I’m not sorry.) And the giant pancake? Well, it’s not my fault that the toddler was too smart to share it all eight times I made it for him for breakfast.

under the pot pie lid, a hearty fall stew 

pot pies, almost ready to bake 
bean and chard pot pies, from the oven 

However, there is one dish that my husband pauses and sighs, remembering favorably, just about every time it comes up, and that is this one, Pancetta, White Bean and Swiss Chard Pot Pies. It spun out of my firm belief that if you’re limiting you pot pies to chicken, well, you’re missing some excellent opportunities. Pot pies, at their core, are the ultimate cooler weather comfort food and what makes them grand has little, in my opinion, to do with chicken. Beneath the lid is a velouté-like sauce, which is a fancy way of saying a broth that’s been thickened and enriched a little with a butter-flour roux. In short: it’s broth made much more decadent, and just about anything you add to it will be made ten times as delicious by its environment. In this case, I wanted an earthy fall stew, with some greens, beans and a little pancetta for smoky richness, though you can absolutely skip the pancetta if you’re looking for a vegetarian dish. The lid is the flakiest pastry I know how to make and together in the oven,
our pies will bubble and bronze their way to an unforgettable dinner, the kind of thing, in individual portions, that’d be mean not to share. Especially if people will eventually find out.

four pot pies that want to be your dinner 

Big book-signing news!: As excited as I am to get the book tour started, I, too, am bummed that I’m not going to be able to do signings in all of the cities I would like this fall. There isn’t enough time. There isn’t enough me! So, we have been working feverishly behind the scenes to find an arrangement that would allow people who cannot get to a tour destination to buy a copy full of my chicken scrawl signed by me. We’ve teamed with the delightful McNally-Jackson bookstore in Soho and they have created a custom ordering page wherein you can request your personal inscription. If you order by Wednesday, October 24th, the book will ship on its release date of October 30th. Order by Tuesday, December 4th to receive in time for Hanukkah and by Thursday, December 20th to receive in time for Christmas. Quantities are limited by, frankly, my crazy travel schedule this fall but if for whatever reason there’s no way I will be able to keep up with the orders (and yes, I would absolutely file this under Good Problems To Have!) we will let you know. Whee! [Here’s the page with everything you need to know.] 

Book previews: This is the third of four cookbook previews I am sharing on the site in advance of its publication date, October 30th. The first was Cinnamon Toast French Toast and the second was Fig, Olive Oil and Sea Salt Challah. I wouldn’t say I’m saving the best for last (these recipes are like children: I could never have a favorite!) but oh man, the one that comes next has been almost unbearable to know about for two years and not tell you yet. You can sneak another preview in a few publications, such as The New York Times, which ran an adaptation of the book’s Leek Fritters over the summer. O Magazine ran an adaptation of one of the book’s birthday cakes for grown-ups this month and over on Amazon, you can already thumb through the book. But promise you won’t yell at me, okay? I really did mean to share.

Two years ago: Apple and Cheddar Scones 
Three years ago: Jalapeno and Cheddar Scones 
Four years ago: Acorn Squash Quesadillas and My Family’s Noodle Kugel 
Five years ago: Hello Dolly Bars and Butternut Squash and Caramelized Onion Galette 
Six years ago: Winter Squash Soup with Gruyere Croutons 

Pancetta, White Bean and Swiss Chard Pot Pies 
From The Smitten Kitchen Cookbook 

The pancetta, while adding a lovely, smoky base, can be omitted to make this vegetarian. In fact, I went back and forth many, many times about removing it so that this could stay in the vegetarian section, but in the end, decided it easier I leave the choice to you. For a vegetarian version, simply skip the pancetta and cook your vegetables in 2 tablespoons olive oil instead of 1. You can replace the swiss chard with any green you have around, from a hearty spinach to kale, adjusting the cooking time accordingly to make sure it wilts a bit before going into the oven to finish cooking.

As you can see from the photos, I really don’t own soup crocks. I have debated the value of purchasing some many times of the years, but you must trust me when I say I don’t have room for a single extra dish I don’t already own in my life right now. Instead, I just use two-cup bowls we already have that are ovenproof. (When buying a dish set, I always look to see if they are ovenproof, as you never know when this will come in handy.) If you don’t have ovenproof soup bowls, you can always make a large version of this in a casserole dish with one big pastry lid.

Weekday night tip: Make a double batch of the stew and lids. Keep them separate and for two to three nights, you can ladle what you’d like into bowls, roll out lids and bake them to order.

Serves 4 

Lid 
2 cups (250 grams) all- purpose flour 
1/2 teaspoon table salt 
13 tablespoons (185 grams or 1 stick plus 5 tablespoons) cold unsalted butter, diced 
6 tablespoons (90 grams) sour cream or whole Greek yogurt (i.e., a strained 
yogurt) 
1 tablespoon (15 ml) white wine vinegar 
1/4 cup (60 ml) ice water 
1 egg, beaten with 1 tablespoon water, for egg wash 

Filling 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil 
4 ounces (115 grams or 3/4 to 1 cup) 1/4-inch-diced pancetta 
1 large or 2 small onions, finely chopped 
1 large carrot, finely chopped 
1 large stalk celery, finely chopped 
Pinch of red pepper flakes 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
2 garlic cloves, minced 
Thinly sliced Swiss chard leaves from an 8- to 10-ounce (225- to 285-gram) 
bundle (4 cups): if leaves are very wide, you can halve them lengthwise 
3 1/2 tablespoons (50 grams) butter 
3 1/2 tablespoons (25 grams) all- purpose flour 
3 1/2 cups (765 ml) sodium- free or low- sodium chicken or vegetable broth 
2 cups white beans, cooked and drained, or from one and a third 15.5- ounce 
(440-gram) cans 

Make lids: In a large, wide bowl (preferably one that you can get your hands into), combine the fl our and salt. Add the butter and, using a pastry blender or your fingertips, cut them up and into the flour mixture until it resembles little pebbles. Keep breaking up the bits of butter until the texture is like uncooked couscous. In a small dish, whisk together the sour cream, vinegar, and water, and combine it with the butter-flour mixture. Using a flexible spatula, stir the wet and the dry together until a craggy dough forms. If needed, get your hands into the bowl to knead it a few times into one big ball. Pat it into a flattish ball, wrap it in plastic wrap, and chill it in the fridge for 1 hour or up to 2 days. 

Make filling: Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium- high heat in a large, wide saucepan, and then add the pancetta. Brown the pancetta, turning it frequently, so that it colors and crisps on all sides: this takes about 10 minutes. Remove it with a slotted spoon, and drain it on paper towels before transferring to a medium bowl. Leave the heat on and the renderings in the pan. Add an additional tablespoon of olive oil if needed and heat it until it is shimmering. Add onions, carrot, celery, red pepper flakes, and a few pinches of salt, and cook over medium heat until the vegetables are softened and begin to take on color, about 7 to 8 minutes. Add the garlic, and cook for 1 minute more. Add the greens and cook until wilted, about 2 to 3 minutes. Season with the additional salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Transfer all of the cooked vegetables to the bowl with the pancetta, and set aside. 

Make sauce: Wipe out the large saucepan: don’t worry if any bits remain stuck to the bottom. Then melt the butter in the saucepan over medium- low heat. Add the flour, and stir with a whisk until combined. Continue cooking for 2 minutes, stirring the whole time, until it begins to take on a little color. Whisk in the broth, one ladleful at a time, mixing completely between additions. Once you’ve added one- third of the broth, you can begin to add the rest more quickly, two to three ladlefuls at a time: at this point you can scrape up any bits that were stuck to the bottom — they’ll add great flavor. 

Once all of the broth is added, stirring the whole time, bring the mixture to a boil and reduce it to a simmer. Cook the sauce until it is thickened and gravylike, about 10 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Stir the white beans and reserved vegetables into the sauce. 

Preheat your oven to 375 degrees. 

Assemble and cook pot pies: Divide the filling between four ovenproof 2-cup bowls. (You’ll have about 1 1/2 cups filling in each.) Set the bowls on a baking pan. Divide the dough into four pieces, and roll it out into rounds that will cover your bowls with an overhang, or about 1 inch wider in diameter than your bowls. Whisk the egg wash and brush it lightly around the top rim of your bowls (to keep the lid glued on: nobody likes losing their lid!) and drape the pastry over each, pressing gently to adhere it. Brush the lids with egg wash, then cut decorative vents (smaller than mine, please, as they led to lots of draping) in each to help steam escape. Bake until crust is lightly bronzed and filling is bubbling, about 30 to 35 minutes. 

Do ahead: The dough, wrapped twice in plastic wrap and slipped into a freezer bag, will keep for up to 2 days in the fridge, and for a couple months in the freezer. The filling can be made up to a day in advance and stored in a covered container in the fridge. 

START RECIPE
parmesan broth with kale and white beans 
JANUARY 6, 2014 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
This soup is the very best thing I ate in December, which is saying a lot for a month that involved the purchase of at least 4 pounds of butter. And it didn’t involve any of them. I know, I know — that’s crazy talk. 


cheese rinds by the pound 
smash some garlic 

We had a last-minute dinner party in December, last minute enough that I basically ran to the store that morning and bought everything then cooked straight through until dinner. This is not my style. I’m a dinner party planner: rushing makes my skin crawl. But if there could be an upside to it, it would be that by planning the morning-of, necessary adjustments could be made due to the facts that 1. It was snowing very hard outside, thus, soup was in order. 2. A vegetarian friend (that’s not so strict that cheese is off the menu) was able to make so my beloved chicken stock was out for a base, but I wanted something equally magnanimous. 

what you'll need 

I’ve read for years that when making minestrone or other Italian soups, you cannot go wrong with throwing in an old Parmesan rind for flavor. And I’ve done it here and there, but it’s never changed my life. Meanwhile, I spent a spectacular amount of time obsessing over a chicken broth-based at Maialino shortly after it opened, trying to figure out what they’d done to elevate the chicken stock to nothing short of what I imagine crack would be like? Okay, maybe I’m reaching a little. Nevertheless, I hadn’t put two and two together until just a couple days before this dinner party, when In Jennie’s Kitchen shared a recipe for parmesan brodo — a broth made almost entirely from parmesan rinds — and I could not get it out of my head. 

boil, boil 
unimaginably delicious parmesan broth 

The result was the most luxurious, rich and loud broth I’ve ever made. It’s said you can use it for risotto or heartier soups, but I wouldn’t dare. It’s too amazing just puddled plain on a spoon. Instead, I tried to enlist its inherent amazing-ness to add life to more earnest ingredients — white beans, plus their bean cooking broth (more soup nirvana for you there, trust me), and ribbons of kale. We were having a good amount of pasta for dinner (see above: abundant snow), so I wanted to lay off the noodles (although tortellini would be wonderful in a soup like this) but I did float a thin slice of toasted baguette on top, which we then drizzled with the olive oil I smuggled back from Rome some 84 degrees and 8 months ago, and yes, some grated Parmesan. 

i've become a committed bean-soaker 
kale 

And then we just swan dove in. There’s really no other way to explain how well it went over, how amazing it made the apartment smell or how warming yet not overly heavy it felt to eat. It may not be pretty but you shouldn’t trust pretty food, anyway: pretty food has too many things going for it that are not flavor, after all. This, this puddle of wholesome scraps in a murky, yellowish broth, this is the food that will thaw us all. 

parmesan broth with kale and white beans 
parmesan broth with kale and white beans 

Email and Something New: I am no great believer in resolutions, but I do find it hard to resist the pull of using a year’s end to clear the queue various queues, usually of things that clogging up progress so one can make way for fresh new things in a fresh new year. For me, this involved unceremoniously dumping a bunch of half-finished cooking ambitions on you, so they could live outside my computer for a while, see which ideas become more appealing with time. It also involves me today admitting something long overdue: I have failed at email. 

My prior process [read everything as it comes in, immediately, ruthlessly delete all junk/things of no interest, archive what needs to be saved, respond to anything that can be responded to in under 90 seconds right away, and leave the rest — questions I’ll be happy to answer when I have more time — in the inbox for later, never letting that to-respond stack grow larger than 50] stopped working at some point last year and my inbox quickly became that factory scene in I Love Lucy, minus the delicious chocolate. With the to-answer count approaching 1,900 emails, every time I open my email I imagine them tapping their feet impatiently or at least clucking their tongues in profound disappointment with me and I need to admit defeat, crawl out from under, and declare Email Bankruptcy. Everything that was in there has been read and archived, and I beg you, if you’ve sent me a note in the last year that went unanswered (that was not about us partnering/me shilling/reviewing products/sponsored posts/becoming a 
ambassador”/contributed articles/link exchange requests or anything that a quick glance at the site would make clear that SK is not into) to email me again and I promise to do better this year. I really liked hearing from you, even if I failed at my end of things. 

A good lot of the emails I’ve missed responding to involve simple questions that I’d have been happy to answer, had I not be this far “in the weeds” so I thought that maybe it would be fun if we could try something new this year, regularly scheduled  Me Anything-style chats. I thought we’d try the first one next week on the Smitten Kitchen Facebook wall. Stop by between 12 and 1 Eastern time on Wednesday, January 15th, and leave a question in the comments of the top post and you will have my undivided attention for an hour. If it goes well, we’ll try it again in April. I look forward to chatting with you in a more fluid way than email. 

tl:dr: A Q&A-Style Smitten Kitchen Facebook Page Chat, Wednesday, January 15th, 12 to 1 p.m. EST.  me anything. 

Upcoming Cooking: Currently, my To Cook list looks like this: soup, soup, soup, salad, soup, something with kale, soup, something else with kale, then all of the peanut butter and all of the chocolate. Are we on the same page with this?

Where’s the carrot soup? For the previous two years, the first recipe of the year on this site has been a carrot soup, not because I like carrot soup, but because I never much cared for it at all and I enjoyed challenging myself to find ways to make it that I could be converted. I actually had a third one planned for you (it’s a theme, after all) but ended up sharing it with Parade Magazine a few months ago instead, in a kind of farmstead approach to Italian Wedding Soup. [Carrot Soup with Tiny Turkey Meatballs and Spinach]

One year ago: Carrot Soup with Tahini and Crisped Chickpeas 
Two years ago: Carrot Soup with Miso and Sesame 
Three years ago: Chard and White Bean Stew 
Four years ago: Southwestern Pulled Brisket (only make this overnight in a slow-cooker if you enjoy eating the air when you wake) 
Five years ago: Potato and Artichoke Tortilla 
Six years ago: Viennese Cucumber Salad 
Seven years ago: Really Simple Homemade Pizza 

Parmesan Broth with Kale and White Beans 
Broth adapted from Jennifer Perillo 

This broth is not only fairly quick to make, it could be used for all sorts of things, from cooking risotto to soaking beans, but I find it to be so exquisite on its own, I prefer it with only a couple simple additions. I used beans and kale, but you could also add tiny stelline (star-shaped) pasta or a good tortellini. I imagine it would be out-of-this-world to use with an Italian Wedding-style Soup, and I don’t even think I could handle the luxury if you added a poached egg to the below soup, too.

Heads-up: I forgot to mention this earlier, but a downside of this soup is that the residual cheese on the rinds enjoys releasing from the rinds as it cooks and gumming itself to your pot, giving you a fun scrubbing job. The best way to avoid this (this time, or in the future) is to tie the cheese rinds up in cheesecloth so the flavor infuses but less of the cheese. A second way is that if you have a nonstick pot you haven’t gotten rid of, use it here. It will be easier to clean. The way I do it (since I always forget to use cheesecloth) is to keep using that cheesy pot to make the soup after you’ve used the broth, stirring and scraping. I find that only a little is left at the end this way. Hope that helps.

Note: I usually double this. 

Broth 
8 ounces cheese rinds, any paper at the ends removed 
6 cups water 
1 large onion, peeled and quartered 
3 cloves garlic, peeled and smashed 
1/2 teaspoon whole peppercorns 
Handful of flat-leaf parsley 
Salt, to taste 

To serve 
2 to 3 ounces tuscan kale (also known as black or lacinato kale: this is the thinner, flatter leaf variety), washed and patted dry (updated measurement) 
1 1/4 cups cooked white beans (from about 1/4 pound dried), with their cooking liquid if fresh (usually about 1 1/2 cups) (updated measurement) 
Thin slices of baguette, toasted 
Olive oil and parmesan for serving 

Make the broth: Bring all broth ingredients to a boil in a large pot, then reduce it to a simmer. Simmer for one hour. Pour broth through a strainer. Your yield should be approximately 4 1/2 cups. You can use this right away or cool it before storing it. 

Turn the broth into soup: Prepare kale by removing tough stems and center rib (I often use kitchen shears for this), then cutting the leaves into thin ribbons. Add them to the broth, along with the beans. Add bean cooking liquid if you wish: this not only stretches the intense parmesan broth further but adds a gorgeous extra depth to the soup. Simmer ingredients together for 10 minutes, until kale leaves wilt and beans are warmed through. 

To serve: Ladle a small amount of beans, kale and broth into a bowl. (It’s so rich, we like it in smaller portions.) Top with a slice of toasted baguette. Drizzle baguette and soup lightly with your favorite olive oil and grate some fresh parmesan cheese over. Eat immediately. 

So many notes: 
Lady, where do you think I’m going to get a half-pound of Parmesan rinds? Don’t worry, I don’t think anyone goes through that much Parmesan, not even you. I probably wouldn’t even be writing this recipe up had I not made the discovery that you can buy Parmesan rinds-aplenty at a handful of stores. Both Whole Foods I’ve gone to in NYC stock them, thus I’m sure most locations do, as do other grocery stores and many cheese stops — essentially, if a place sells freshly-grated Parmesan, they have a supply of rinds somewhere. If they’re nice, they’ll give them to you for free. If they’re business-smart, they’ll charge you, but still significantly less than you’d pay for the cheese itself. However, in the future, please promise that you won’t throw away any Parmesan rinds (or pecorino Romano, or… actually, if you add cheese rinds to soups, I’d love to hear your favorites): you can even keep them in the freezer, as you would other good soup “bones,” until you need them. 

Beans: I used cannelini beans for this the first time, but I spied some of Rancho Gordo’s Yellow-Eye beans in my cabinet (which are a great swap for white beans, wherever you use them) and had to use them instead, as it was just a day or two after New Years and I hadn’t gotten my black-eyed pea fix. The only downside of using a non-white bean such as this is that if you want to add the bean broth to your soup, it will change the color to something even less pretty. 

How to cook dried beans: I promise, a separate post is coming on this. In the meanwhile, if you have time to soak your beans (cover them with way more water in a bigger bowl than you think you’ll need and leave them to soak for 8 hours or up to 24), do it, I find that it cuts stovetop time in half, or at least down by 1 hour. I dump it, soaking liquid and all, into a heavy pot, add more water (plus any aromatics you’d want, herbs, bay leaves, spice, onions, or garlic, but hold off on the salt for now) and bring the pot to a full boil. Boil it for one full minute, skimming any foam or, ahem, “scum” that floats, then reduce the heat to the lowest simmer possible, checking it from time to time and adding more liquid if needed. Your beans, depending on variety/age/if you soaked them, will take 1 to 3 hours to cook from here. My soaked-overnight white beans took just 1 hour. Once they are mostly softened, you can add salt to taste. Store them in their cooking liquid, which you should seriously consider adding to  any/all soups as extra broth. Don’t dump all the flavor down the drain. I’ve also cooked beans many times, usually without bothering to soak, in a slow-cooker, for anywhere from 2 1/2 to 5 hours on HIGH (or longer on LOW). Yes, it takes longer, but the beauty of the slow-cooker is that it’s hands-off, while a stovetop needs to be somewhat monitored. 

Not technically vegetarian: Strict vegetarians do not eat Parmesan as calf rennet is used in production. (More here.) 

START RECIPE
pasta and white beans with garlic-rosemary oil 
JANUARY 30, 2013 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
If you have a thing for chocolate, the world is your oyster. On this very site, 86 of the just over 800 recipes boast a significant chocolate component and entire sections of bookstores will be happy to fill in any cravings I missed. If you have a thing for bacon, the internet would be overjoyed to find you places to put it, zillions, even, although I’d proceed with caution before auditioning a couple. But if you have a thing for something slightly less of a prom king/queen ingredient, say, tiny white beans, well, it can be tough. It’s not there are no uses for them, it’s just that when you’re very much in love, there are never enough ways to be together. And if you’re me — someone who sometimes ups and makes a mega-pot of white beans just because you feel like it, presuming you’ll find things to do with them later — you sometimes end up scrambling, yanking down nearly every cookbook in your collection but still coming up bereft of uses outside the well-trodden soup-and-salad territory. 


sometimes i cook beans and figure out why later 

So tell me: What are you favorite uses for beans outside the ever-popular realm of chili, tacos, soup and salad? Really, I’m hankering for more inspiration. I ended up finding some — but never enough — in this month’s Bon Appetit, in a stack of pasta recipes you will find it impossible to choose among from Sara Jenkins of Porchetta and Porsena (and green bean salad, sigh) fame. I was so charmed by the short tubes of pasta with chickpeas, I made it almost immediately but maybe it was because I’ve overdone it on chickpeas this month, but I kept thinking it would be nice with something… daintier. And considering that it is an established fact (um, in Italy, where I suspect both my white bean and artichoke obsessions could roam free) that white beans, garlic, rosemary and olive oil are a combination sent from above, I had a hunch they’d be happy here too. 

parsley, garlic, onion, carrot, celery 

ready to mulch 
lazy mirepoix 
alubia biancas 
vegetable rubble letting off steam 
flavor base 
to simmer 
whirling some of the sauce 

The result is a great pasta for this time of year, deeply comforting and hearty but not overly decadent. There’s no heavy cream or cheese, or dairy at all: there’s no bacon (I’m sorry) or even a pinch of meat. And you won’t miss any of these things because, like a certain soup I have missed immensely since last week, it’s the finish that makes the dish — in this case, a sizzling oil with not just garlic but freshly minced rosemary too. If you finish that with a few pinches of sea salt, oh boy. You’ll see. It’ll make a convert out of you too. 

garlic rosemary oil, i love you 
pasta and white beans with garlic-rosemary oil 

One year ago: Potato Chip Cookies 
Two years ago: Roast Chicken with Dijon Sauce 
Three years ago: Mixed Citrus Salad with Feta and Mint and Edna Mae’s Sour Cream Pancakes 
Four years ago: Chicken Milanese and an Escarole Salad and Flaky Blood Orange Tart 
Five years ago: Leek and Swiss Chard Tart and Key Lime Cheesecake 
Six years ago: Sweet and Spicy Candied Pecans and Icebox Cake 

Book Tour II: Just in case your missed the announcement a couple weeks ago, The Smitten Kitchen Book Tour marches on in February and March, with eight cities (hello, Atlanta/St.Louis/Minneapolis/Salt Lake/Denver/Raleigh/Montreal! plus an additional, awesome event in Brooklyn). I hope this means we finally get to meet. 

Pasta and White Beans with Sizzling Garlic-Rosemary Oil 
Adapted, barely, from Sara Jenkins via Bon Appetit 

For the pasta, I used pennete, because I thought it nicely matched the little white beans (Rancho Gordo’s Alubia Blanca). Sara Jenkins called for ditalini to go with chickpeas. You can use whatever you’d like — short tubes, even elbows, and canned beans are just fine here. 

I streamlined the recipe a bit to reduce the number of bowls and pots used, because I’m having the kind of week where if I see another dirty dish, I’ma run far away ahem, to make things easier. 

This makes a lot of pasta, because you’re using a whole pound plus two cans of beans, so it’s a great recipe to consider halving if you wish to finish it before spring comes. 

1 medium onion, cut into big chunks 
1 medium carrot, in big chunks 
1 celery stalk, in big chunks 
6 garlic cloves, 4 left whole, 2 finely chopped 
1/2 cup flat-leaf parsley leaves 
1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes (or to taste) 
1/2 cup olive oil, divided 
Coarse or kosh salt 
2 to 3 tablespoons tomato paste 
3 1/2 cups cooked, drained beans (save cooking liquid for water in recipe, if desired) or 2 15-ounce cans small white beans (such as Great Northern or Cannelini), rinsed 
1 pound short tube pasta (see suggestions above) 
1 tablespoon minced fresh rosemary 

Pulse onion, carrot, celery, whole garlic cloves, parsley, and red pepper flakes (to taste) in a food processor until finely chopped. Heat 1/4 cup oil in a large, heavy pot over medium heat and add vegetable mixture to pot. (Quickly rinse, but no need to fully wash, food processor as you’ll use it again shortly.) Season generously with salt. Cook, stirring from time to time, until vegetables take on a bit of color, about 10 minutes. Add tomato paste (original recipe calls for 2T but we enjoyed it with 3) and cook it into the vegetables for another minute. Add 1 cup water or bean cooking liquid and use it to scrape up any bits stuck to the pot. Let simmer until liquid has almost disappeared, about 5 to 8 minutes. 

Add beans and 2 more cups of water (or bean cooking liquid) to the pot and simmer until the flavors meld, about another 15 minutes. 

Meanwhile, cook pasta until al dente, or still a little firm inside. I know you didn’t  for one, but can I insert an argument for al dente pasta here? The thing is, you don’t want your pasta to fully cook in the water. If you do, it won’t have any absorbency left to drink up and become with that delicious sauce. I have really found that finishing pasta in its sauce is the single thing that most swiftly improved the quality of my pasta dishes. 

Reserve 1 1/2 cups cooking water from your drained pasta. 

Transfer one cup of the bean mixture to your rinsed food processor and purée it until smooth, then stir it back into the sauce to thicken it. Add drained pasta and 1/2 cup cooking liquid to bean sauce and cook the mixture together, adding more pasta cooking liquid as needed, until the sauce coats the pasta, about 1 to 2 more minutes. 

To serve: Heat remaining 1/4 cup olive oil in a tiny saucepan over medium-low heat with garlic and rosemary, until sizzling stops. Divide pasta between serving bowls and drizzle garlic-rosemary oil over each. If you’re us, you’ll finish this with a few flakes of sea salt. Eat at once. 

START RECIPE
pasta with favas, tomatoes and sausage 
APRIL 21, 2009 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I wish I could tell you that the last meal cooked in the first Smitten Kitchen was a triumph, a fitting coda to four-plus years in a sun-drenched Manhattan kitchen with enough space to put everything away (not that I’m pointing fingers or anything, new kitchen) and space enough for two people (and at least one growing midsection) to settle comfortably within it. Alas, that was not the case. 


blanching fresh favas 

Instead it was prepared in the evening (when even the skylight couldn’t be taken advantage of), in kind of rushed (as in, “why am I cooking dinner when I should be packing things, or pretending to pack things while actually reading the internet?”) and was less of a “I’ve always wanted to make this” and more of a “if we’re packing up the kitchen tomorrow, let’s get on last meal in tonight.” Ah, the glamor! But isn’t this so often what weekday night cooking is about? 

peeled favas 

That isn’t to say that it wasn’t tasty. It was actually a delicious compromise of a dinner: Alex will never say no to a dish that involves any format of sausages and I’ve been eagerly awaiting fresh fava beans (get it? Peas in pods, gosh, I’m hilarious). Alas, favas are not around yet (on this coast), but Alex found some politically incorrect ones at a store, to hold me over. Although I know shucking, blanching and peeling favas isn’t the quickest thing, and that frozen ones are readily available (and if not, limas will do), to me, the fresh ones are more than worth the effort, sweet, almost nutty and the embodiment of spring (even when the weather outside begs to differ). 

sausage! sausages! sausage! 

What felt like by the skin of our teeth, we’ve “landed” in the new place and by golly, do we own a lot of stuff for people who claim to live a uncluttered life. The 60-plus boxes piled in the second bedroom (which buys us at least five months to unpack them, right?) and our poor furniture (heaved relentlessly down three flights of narrow stairs, walked to a truck a block away, then back up another three flights of stairs by Vinnie’s Brawniest) might beg to differ. But we’re here, and I must say, deeply smitten with the new digs. Smitten enough to unpack the kitchen today? Hoo hoo hee. Let’s not get crazy or anything. 

fresh pasta sheets 

One year ago: Almond Cake with Strawberry-Rhubarb Compote 

Fresh Pasta with Favas, Tomatoes and Sausage 
Adapted from Bon Appetit 

Whether I have time or energy to make my own, I still think that fresh pasta makes a dish. If you buy freshly rolled sheets, often labeled for lasagna, when you take them home you can use them as you wish, cutting them into long strips, odd shapes or even rolling them thinner, for a more delicate pasta dish. 

Serves eight, in theory. I’d say it serves four. 

2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
1/2 cup finely chopped onion 
2 large garlic cloves, coarsely chopped 
1/8 teaspoon dried crushed red pepper 
1/2 pound Italian sausages, casings removed 
1/4 cup dry white wine 
1 3/4 cups chopped plum tomatoes or diced canned tomatoes 
1 cup shelled fresh fava beans (from about 1 pound), blanched 3 minutes then peeled, or double-peeled frozen, thawed 
3/4 pound fresh pasta sheets (simple recipe here, richer recipe here), cut as desired (maltagliati, or “badly cut” pasta with irregular shapes is suggested), or dried egg fettuccine 
2 tablespoons finely grated Pecorino Romano cheese plus additional for passing 

Heat oil in large saucepan over medium heat. Add next onion, garlic and red pepper and sauté until onion is translucent, about six minutes. Add sausages: break up with fork or a flat-ended wooden spoon. Sauté until brown, about three minutes. Add wine: simmer one minute, scraping up browned bits. Add tomatoes and fava beans. Sauté until tomatoes soften, about five minutes. Season sauce with salt and pepper. 

Meanwhile, cook pasta in large pot of boiling salted water until tender but still firm to bite. Drain, reserving 1/2 cup pasta cooking liquid. Return pasta to same pot. 

Add sauce to pasta. Toss over medium heat until sauce coats pasta, adding reserved cooking liquid as needed if dry, about two minutes. Mix in two tablespoons cheese and transfer pasta to bowl. Serve, passing additional cheese. 

START RECIPE
paula wolfert’s hummus 
JANUARY 26, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
In the introduction to The Man Who Ate Everything, Jeffrey Steingarten admits that from deserts in Indian restaurants, kimchi and dill to seas urchins, chutney and falafel, his list of foods that he wouldn’t eat even if starving on a desert island was so vast, he had considered himself wholly unfit to be appointed the Vogue food critic in 1989. (His list of foods he might eat if he were starving on a desert island but only if the refrigerator were filled with nothing but chutney, sea urchins, and falafel, including Greek food, clams, yogurt and any food that is blue, as it is not a color found in nature, makes me laugh equally hard.) 


soaking the chickpeas 

While less nobly or eloquently worded, the truth is that when I trimmed my list of food dramatics down to six bullet points last week, I had wished for nothing more than to be liberated from them. I mean, chicken cutlets? Tuna fish? French’s mustard? Oh, grow up, Deb! Yet, I just don’t think I’m going to become a beet-lover in this lifetime, though believe me, my Russian in-laws have tried, cilantro simply tastes like dirt to some people and not to others and I eagerly await the frivolous medical study that will prove this, and a lot of California wines are loud, heavy and sweet, most especially those in my price range. 

But from two days ago forward, I will soak my beans with glee and ebullience as I have been converted, dear reader, and it is because of you. I have to blame my early experiences soaking beans for my aversion to it: the first time, the skins flecked off and floated about, making for a muddled, unattractive dish (I have since learned that this means they’d been on the shelf for way too long, thank you, health food store), the second time, they never softened (possibly for the same reason) and there hadn’t been a third time until Monday, when they began their 36-hour soak, Tuesday, when they simmered for an hour forty-five and Wednesday, when they were finally whirled into what has got to be their highest calling: Paula Wolfert’s hummus. (Luisa first brought this recipe to our attention in December, and like dozens and dozens her entries, I bookmarked it immediately.) 

dried chickpeas 

This is the only hummus recipe you will ever need: one taste may cause you to never buy store-bought again. The soaking and simmering process may seem tiresome, but the truth is, you’re not really doing anything except reaping the rewards. The hummus comes together in 3 minutes flat in a food processor and if you have a day to let it sit, it’s just what it needs to allow the flavors to full develop. Which is not to say that we did not dash it with fresh parsley, a dribble of olive oil and a sprinkling of za’atar, a Middle Eastern spice blend we adore, and dive into it with carrot sticks, right from the food processor bowl, because I think that goes without saying. We are happy, happy hummus-ers, indeed. 

hummus, complete 

Updated: Six years later, I updated this recipe with a new technique for even better hummus texture. See: Ethereally Smooth Hummus. 

Paula Wolfert’s Hummus 

Makes 4 cups 

1 1/2 cups dried chickpeas, soaked overnight 
1 teaspoon kosher salt, divided 
3 garlic cloves, peeled 
3/4 cup sesame seed paste 
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice, and more to taste 
Cayenne, hot Hungarian paprika or za’atar 
2 tablespoons chopped parsley 
2 teaspoons olive oil 

1. Rinse the soaked chickpeas well and drain them before putting them in a saucepan and covering them with plenty of fresh water. Bring to a boil: skim, add one-half teaspoon salt, cover and cook over medium heat, about 1 1/2 hours, until the chickpeas are very soft (you might need to add more water). 

2. Meanwhile, crush the garlic and one-half teaspoon salt in a mortar until pureed. Transfer the puree to the work bowl of a food processor, add the sesame seed paste and lemon juice and process until white and contracted. Add one-half cup water and process until completely smooth. 

3. Drain the chickpeas, reserving their cooking liquid. Add the chickpeas to the sesame paste mixture and process until well-blended. For a smoother texture, press the mixture through the fine blade of a food mill. Thin to desired consistency with reserved chickpea liquid. Adjust the seasoning with salt and lemon juice. The hummus can be kept in an airtight container in the fridge for up to a week.) Serve, sprinkled with paprika (or za’atar) and parsley and drizzled with oil. 

START RECIPE
pizza beans (cookbook preview!)
SEPTEMBER 26, 2017 JUMP TO RECIPE, COMMENTS 
Good morning! In less than one month (28 days, not that I’m nervously counting or anything), my second cookbook, Smitten Kitchen Every Day, will be ready to leave warehouses and head to you or your favorite bookstore. A book tour will be quickly under way (I hope we get to meet!). And all of this means that today, I get to share two more awesome things: 


1. Early copies of the book have begun to arrive at warehouses! While the book will not be officially out until October 24th, we thought it would be fun to send a few of these out right now. To you. For free. Because maybe being the first of your friends to get the book comes with bragging rights. Because we hope it’s worth the wait, and that wait (4.92 years) has been long enough. My publishers are giving away 10 copies each to U.S. and Canadian residents: use the links below to submit your name for a chance to win. 

US Residents: https://sweeps.penguinrandomhouse.com/enter/smitten-kitchen-every-day-early-copy-sweepstakes 
Required legalese: No Purchase Necessary. Residents of the fifty United States + the District of Columbia, 18+. Ends October 6. See official rules here. 

Canadian Residents: http://penguinrandomhouse.ca/win-early-copy-smitten-kitchen-every-day 
Required legalese: No Purchase Necessary. Residents of Canada (excluding Quebec), 18+. Ends October 6. 


2. I also get to share another video shot in my tiny kitchen by the very talented Ben Pliss. This is one of my favorite recipes from the book, one that has been particularly hard to keep to myself (seriously, check out these two comments from 2014, when I first made it and brought it to a potluck and then couldn’t tell you about it yet, rather rude, I know.) 

Here’s the full story, excerpted from the book: 

Most of us know the number one rule of cooking for a crowd: don’t make anything new or scary. Not the rack of lamb you’ve been eyeing, not the souffle´ or anything else that’s going to send you into a vibe-ruining tizzy. This rule is probably doubly important if you’re invited to a potluck at a big-deal editor’s apartment with a dozen food writers you’re totally intimidated by, each of whom will arrive with his or her own signature dish. But this is not what I did. I’d like to pretend that it’s just because I’ve got an unshakable confidence in my cooking, or, at the least, kitchen, uh, “meatballs” of steel. Alas, it would be more accurate to say that I decided to make this dish you see here—a mash-up of a giant-beans-in-tomato-sauce dish from Greece and American-style baked ziti, with beans instead of noodles—because, well, it was really what I was in the mood to cook that day, and cravings trump rationality pretty much always around here, and especially when I am 6 months pregnant. 

Before I left, I baked off a smaller amount for my husband and son for dinner, and my son — perhaps predictably for the then-kindergarten [now-3rd grade!] set — threw a fit. “I do not like beans.” “You’re going to love these.” “I won’t eat them.” “You should try them! You’ll see! There’s tomato sauce, and look at all of that cheese on top… It’s just like pizza.” “Pizza beans!!” (Do I even need to tell you that this did the trick?) 

And thus this is the story of how I showed up to a potluck with a dish tagged “Tomato-Braised Gigante Bean Gratin,” but there isn’t a person there who will remember them (fondly, I hope) as anything but “Pizza Beans.” 

what you'll needgetting starteda mess of delicious thingscover with cheese, because we love you 

Pizza Beans / Tomato and Gigante Bean Bake 
SERVINGS: 8 TIME: 45 MINUTES SOURCE: SMITTEN KITCHEN EVERY DAY 

I like to think of this as a vegetable-rich (but not overwhelming, should you be trying to entice the hesitant) baked ziti where the ziti is replaced by giant beans. I used Royal Corona beans from Rancho Gordo but you might find large white beans such as these sold as fagioli corona or gigante/gigandes bean at an Italian or Greek grocery store. Regular-sized white beans will work too, they just have a less distinctive and dramatic texture. While it’s good solo, we often serve this with garlic bread for extra luxury. It reheats well from the fridge or freezer. For a meaty variation, brown some fresh sweet or spicy Italian sausages (about 3/4 pound or 340 grams) with the vegetables. 

2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil 
1 large onion, chopped 
2 celery stalks, diced 
1 large or 2 regular carrots, diced 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper or red pepper flakes 
2 large garlic cloves, minced 
1/4 cup (60 ml) dry white or red wine (optional) 
4 ounces (115 grams) curly kale leaves, chopped or torn 
2 1/4 cups (550 grams) crushed tomatoes (28-ounce or 800-gram can minus 1 cup: reserve the rest for another use) 
1 pound (455 grams) cooked firm-tender giant white beans 
Up to 3/4 cup (175 ml) vegetable broth 
1/2 pound (225 grams) mozzarella, coarsely grated 
1/3 cup (35 grams) grated Parmesan 
2 tablespoons (5 grams) roughly chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley, for garnish (optional) 

Prepare the beans and vegetables: Heat the oven to 475 degrees. In a 2 1/2-to-3-quart (ideally oven-safe) deep saute´ pan, braiser, or shallow Dutch oven, heat the olive oil on medium-high. Add the onion, celery, and carrots. 
Season well with salt and black or red pepper. Cook, saute´ing, until the vegetables brown lightly, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic, and cook for 1 minute more. Add the wine, if using, to scrape up any stuck bits, then simmer until it disappears, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the kale, and cook for 1 to 2 minutes, until collapsed, then add the tomatoes and bring to a simmer. Add the beans, and, if the mixture looks too dry or thick (canned tomatoes range quite a bit in juiciness), add up to 3/4 cup broth, 1/4 cup at a time. Simmer the mixture together over medium for about 10 minutes, adjusting the seasonings as needed. 

If your pan isn’t ovenproof, transfer the mixture to a 3-quart baking dish. If it is, well, carry on. 

Bake: Sprinkle the beans first with the mozzarella, then the Parmesan, and bake for 10 to 15 minutes, until browned on top. If you’re impatient and want a deeper color, you can run it under the broiler. Finish with parsley, if desired. 


START RECIPE
quick pasta and chickpeas 
OCTOBER 5, 2017 JUMP TO RECIPE, COMMENTS 
Pasta e ceci (pasta and chickpeas) is one of Rome’s most iconic dishes, the only dish so essential that it shows up on both Tuesdays and Fridays on the informal meal calendar.* And while there are no two matching ways to make it (a fine excuse to spend as many weeks in Rome as it takes to try them all, if you  me), the rough guiding recipe principles are fairly consistent: a sautéed base of garlic, sometimes onion, celery and carrot too, and seasonings to which chickpeas, water or chickpea cooking broth, and pasta are added. Some are a more brothy like soup, some blend some chickpeas for a thicker base, some more herby with rosemary or sage, some are light and others are heavy on tomatoes. And then then came Victoria Granof’s version that took the internet by storm over the last couple years as word of it trickled out from her Chickpeas cookbook (which goes so far beyond hummus in ways that only a Le Cordon Bleu-trained chef and famous food stylist would think of) in the lovely Short Stack single ingredie  nt cookbook series.


what you'll needwhat you'll need 

I bet you think this means it will be complicated. It is, in fact, the opposite. Granof’s version has 5 ingredients, I bet every single one is in your pantry right now, and takes 20 minutes, which is why there’s no making it just once. We all need more 20-minute dinner magic in our lives, so it’s not surprising that it’s already made the web rounds from Food52 to Dinner: A Love Story. 

add tomato pasteadd the rest 

It could also be argued that there’s little I can add to it: why mess with perfection? But I found two little things along the way: The first is that the first time I decided I wanted to make it (you know, 5 minutes after reading about it: this recipe has that effect on people) I discovered that I didn’t have any small pasta around except for little rings familiar to anyone who ate or wish they got to eat (me!) Spaghetti-Os growing up, the little Os are an official pasta shape called annellini. Did I originally buy them with vague aspirations of reverse engineering the canned stuff? You betcha. But after I saw how quickly my children gobbled this similar-looking dish up (and it’s so great in a thermos for lunch too, so go ahead and double it), I am glad I hadn’t gotten to it yet. 

a-simmeringa little extra 

The second thing is a little extra finish that I do when I have a minute or two more to spare. Rather than just drizzling olive oil on top, as is traditional, I love to heat it with some additional chopped garlic, minced rosemary leaves, salt and pepper flakes for a minute for a nutty, flavorful, slightly crispy, and dramatically sizzling finish, and alternative to the usual parmesan or pecorino, which is not unwelcome here, just not nearly as dynamic.

* Please note: 80% of what I know about Roman cooking, and particularly pasta e ceci, I’ve learned from the fantastic Rachel Roddy: please do not miss her Guardian column, blog, or books but be warned you might buy tickets to Rome five minutes later, which is essentially what we did in 2013. (The other 10% is from non-Roddy Roman food writers and the remaining 10% was gleaned on that vacation.) 

quick pasta con ceci 

The Smitten Kitchen Every Day Fall 2017 Book TourHave you gotten to check out the book tour for Smitten Kitchen Every Day? It begins the day the book comes out — October 24th — and I’m so excited. I hope your town is on it. I hope this means we finally get to meet. And if you’re in Minneapolis, Nashville, Denver, Atlanta or Montreal… we should have more good news soon (eee!). 

Quick Pasta and Chickpeas / Pasta e Ceci 
SERVINGS: 2 TO 3, PETITELY: 1 TO 2, GENEROUSLY TIME: 20 MINUTES SOURCE: ADAPTED, JUST A LITTLE, FROM VICTORIA GRANOF 

Want to amp it up a little? Use the broth from freshly cooked chickpeas instead of water (although I promise it won’t be one-note if you only use water because this recipe is magic). You could also add a parmesan rind to the cooking liquid (although this would negate the vegan/vegetarian label). I’ve written it below with the finishing oil the way I like it, but I approach this by holding back a little bit of the recommended garlic and oil and saving it for the end. Should you want to make it as Granof originally wrote it, you’ll want 3 cloves of garlic and 4 tablespoons of oil to begin: the dish is finished with additional olive oil only. 

2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 cloves garlic, peeled and smashed 
3 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more to taste 
Freshly ground black pepper or red pepper flakes, to taste 
1 1/2 cups cooked chickpeas (from one 15-ounce can, drained and rinsed) 
1/2 cup (2 ounces or 55 grams) uncooked ditalini pasta (or another small shape: I use annelini) 
2 cups (475 ml) boiling water 
TO FINISH 
2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil (estimate 1 per serving) 
1 clove of garlic, peeled and finely chopped 
1 teaspoon minced fresh rosemary 
Salt and red pepper flakes 

In a medium-large heavy-bottomed pot or deep saute pan, heat 2 tablespoons olive oil until it shimmers. Add 2 smashed cloves of garlic and cook, stirring until it becomes lightly, barely browned but very fragrant. Stir in the tomato paste, salt, and pepper and cook them with the garlic for 30 seconds or so. Add the chickpeas, pasta, and boiling water. Stir to scrape up any browned bits on the bottom of the pot, lower the heat, and simmer until the pasta is cooked and a lot of the liquid has been absorbed, about 15 to 20 minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning and ladle into bowls. 
Make finishing oil: Heat 2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil in a small sauce- or frying pan over medium-low heat with remaining clove of garlic, rosemary, a pinch or two of salt and pepper flakes, until sizzling: pull it off the heat as soon as the garlic is going to start taking on color. Drizzle this over bowls of pasta e ceci and eat it right away. 


START RECIPE
recipes from a cumin junkie 
FEBRUARY 26, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Considering that I was on a two year extended Indian cooking kick before I started this site, I find it odd that I have included but one Indian-spiced recipe in the time since. I’m not sure if others do this, but I tend to go in and out of food crazes — currently, the absolutely only thing I want to eat after the gym is tofu pad thai, which doesn’t sound so horrible until you consider that I hit the gym three times a week, and no doubt reverse its effects just as often. I’ve gone through similar phases with poached eggs (atop anything), dinners of asparagus and roasted tiny red potatoes (only), dumplings, and for two torturous months of Alex’s life, a certain Belgian Endive and Grain Mustard salad of Nigella Lawson’s I fiended for, even first thing in the morning. 


red split lentils with cabbage 

The Indian cooking bender was no different. What I loved was that you would take the simplest ingredients and render them into hearty, filling and unbelievably healthy dishes, and blow your expectations of lentils out of the water. Their fiscal smarts also cannot be overlooked. Once we’d bought the six or seven spices we continually came back to, we’d stand flabbergasted at the register as our lentils, cauliflower, potatoes and peas came to a mere $5 — and created leftovers that were as good if not better than they were the first day. But the real Indian food addiction was those spices: once they got under my skin (and permanently stained several cooking implements), I couldn’t stop itching for more of them. I became, excruciatingly enough, a cumin seed junkie. 

indian spiced cauliflower and potatoes 

Two dishes from Sunday night brightly display cumin seed’s prowess. The former is actually the first Indian recipe I cooked for us: it was a undeniable hit and I’ve come back to it more than a dozen times since. I could eat it for days, and this week, with any luck, I just might. The second is from a Madhur Jaffrey cookbook I’m ashamed to admit I haven’t used more often in the two years I’ve owned it. I hadn’t liked the first recipe I’d tried from there, and avoided its space on the bookshelf since. Well, this nonsense was kicked to the curb Sunday night, because the red lentils and cabbage are phenomenal, and I might just cut off this entry right now so I can get to scooping up the leftovers. Eerily, this is a gym night — might it be good enough to rescue me from Pad Thailand, and perchance, bounce my logged gym hours back into the progress zone? 

cucumber scallion raita 

Why the gratuitous pomegranate picture? When hunting through the fridge this weekend in search of food to apply eyes to, inspired by Amy Sedaris’ Craft Challenge, (what? I have hobbies!) I found this sad rock of a pomegranate Alex bought months and months ago, but when I opened it up, it looked as bejeweled and stunning as new. Also, as delicious. 

Red Split Lentils With Cabbage (Masoor dal aur band gobi) 
Madhur Jaffrey, Indian Cooking 

Serves 4 to 6 

200 grams (1 1/4 cups) red split lentils (masoor dal), picked over, washed and drained 
1.2 liters (5 cups) water 
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 
5 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1 teaspoon cumin seeds 
2 to 4 cloves garlic, peeled and finely chopped 
1 medium onion, peeled and cut into fine slices 
225 grams (1/2 pound) cored and finely shredded cabbage 
1 to 2 fresh, hot green chilies, finely sliced 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt 
1 medium tomato, peeled (ahem, Deb did not peel her tomato) and finely chopped 
1/2 teaspoon peeled, finely grated fresh ginger 

Put the lentils and water into a heavy pot and bring to a boil. Remove any scum that collects at the top. Add the turmeric and stir to mix. Cover, leaving the lid very slightly ajar, turn heat down to low, and simmer gently for 1 1/4 hours. Stir a few times during the last 30 minutes. 

When the lentils cook, heat the oil in a 20 to 23 centimeter (8 to 9 inch) frying pan over medium heat. When hot, put in the cumin seeds. Let them sizzle for 3 to 4 seconds. Now put in the garlic. As soon as the garlic pieces begin to brown, put in the onion, cabbage and green chilies. Stir and fry the cabbage mixture for about 10 minutes or until it begins to brown and turn slightly crisp. Stir in 1/4 teaspoon of the salt. Turn off the heat under the frying pan. 

When the lentils have cooked for 1 1/4 hours, add the remaining 1 1/4 teaspoon salt, the tomato and ginger to the pot. Stir to mix. Cover and cook another 10 minutes. Add the cabbage mixture and any remaining oil in the frying pan. Stir to mix and bring to a simmer. 

Simmer uncovered for 2 to 3 minutes or until the cabbage is heated through. 

Indian Spiced Cauliflower and Potatoes 
Gourmet, February 2004 

1 (1 3/4-lb) head cauliflower, cut into 3/4-inch-wide florets 
1 1/4 lb Yukon Gold potatoes, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
5 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
1 medium onion, finely chopped 
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped 
2 teaspoons minced fresh jalapeño, including seeds 
2 teaspoons minced peeled fresh ginger 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 
1/4 teaspoon turmeric 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne 
1/2 cup water 

Accompaniment: lemon wedges 

Put oven rack in upper third of oven and place a shallow baking pan on rack. Preheat oven to 475°F. 

Toss cauliflower and potatoes together in a bowl with 3 tablespoons oil, cumin seeds, and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Spread in hot baking pan and roast, stirring occasionally, until cauliflower is tender and browned in spots and potatoes are just tender, about 20 minutes. 

While vegetables are roasting, cook onion, garlic, jalapeño, and ginger in remaining 2 tablespoons oil in a 12-inch heavy skillet over moderate heat, stirring frequently, until very soft and beginning to turn golden, 8 to 10 minutes. Add ground cumin, coriander, turmeric, cayenne, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt and cook, stirring constantly, 2 minutes. Stir in water, scraping up any brown bits from bottom of skillet, then stir in roasted vegetables. Cook, covered, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes. 

Makes 4 side-dish servings. 

Cucumber Scallion Raita 

1/4 cup finely chopped English (seedless cucumber) 
1 thinly sliced scallion 
3/4 cup yogurt 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

Mix!

START RECIPE
red bean and green grain taco bowl 
MARCH 10, 2015 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I swear, this wholesome-looking meal isn’t penance for anything. It’s not a budget-friendly apology for the frenetic unplanned redecorating project or atonement for the fact that I’ve basically only wanted to eat chocolate, peanut butter, bread and pasta for the last 22 weeks. It’s not compensation for the frosting that didn’t make it onto the cake and was eaten instead with a spoon, or the impulsive meringues last weekend. It’s only ever-so-quietly a warning that the next thing coming on this site is so decadent, you might wish to advance yourself some greens, grains and beans. 


red beans 
wheat berries, onion, garlic, poblano and the devil's herb 

It is, however, something of a compromise. Just about the only vaguely nutritious thing I’ve consistently craved since our newest family member started making its presence known are things we could put on, in, or near a tortilla for dinner. I’ve made ground beef tacos, scrambled eggs on soft tortillas, chicken fajitas and charred cauliflower quesadillas and I’ve tried to branch out (look, pork chops! And hey, it’s a salad!) but I always come back to the fact that if didn’t contain avocado, pickled onions, hot sauce, and an unholy amount of ground cumin, it was always second choice. 

blending green sauce 

it's really green 
saucy red beans 

So, in an excuse to find more ways to eat more things that taste like tacos, and to chip away at the egregious amount of dried beans and grains I realized I apparently hoard when taking these photos this month, this is my grain bowl take on the green rice you often see in Mexican cuisine, and a quick way to make plain red beans better. Together in a bowl, my hope is that it’s bright, colorful and spring-like enough that it follows my current cooking mantra, as suggested by Dinner: A Love Story: “Cook for the season you want, not the one you’re stuck with.” Guys, I think it’s working. 

green grain and red bean taco bowl 

One year ago: Broccoli Cheddar and Wild Rice Casserole 
Two years ago: Coconut Bread 
Three years ago: Potato Knish, Two Ways 
Four years ago: The Best Baked Spinach 
Five years ago: Warm Mushroom Salad with Hazelnuts and Coconut Milk Fudge 
Six years ago: Crispy Chewy Chocolate Chip Cookies and Pita Bread 
Seven years ago: Big Crumb Coffee Cake and Alex’s Chicken and Mushroom Marsala 
Eight years ago: Strawberry Rhubarb Pecan Loaf 

And for the other side of the world: 
Six Months Ago: Chocolate and Toasted Hazelnut Milk 
1.5 Years Ago: Zucchini Parmesan Crisps 
2.5 Years Ago: Fig Olive Oil and Sea Salt Challah 
3.5 Years Ago: Roasted Eggplant with Tomatoes and Mint 

Red Bean and Green Grain Taco Bowl 

You can go high or low, fast or slow, with these ingredients. I used hard white wheat berries, which take a full hour to cook, but have a tiny chewy bite that’s my current favorite, but you could use farro, freekeh, barley, quinoa, brown rice or another grain you like here, just adjust the cooking time and liquid amount to the package directions. I used red beans I’d soaked and cooked this weekend, but you could use canned as well, to save time. (Goya are my absolute favorite for reliably intact and un-mushy beans from a can.) Minus the sour cream or any added cheese, this dish is vegan as well as vegetarian. Finally, my grains aren’t terribly green because I’m distracted these days, but if you hold back some green puree until the end, it will brighten up the whole dish. 

Serves 2 to 3 

Grains 
2 fresh poblano chile peppers, seeded and roughly chopped 
1 cup cilantro leaves (picked from 1 bunch) 
3/4 medium white onion, roughly chopped (I save the last 1/4 to finely mince as a topping) 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
3 cups water or broth (amount needed for wheat berries, adjust if needed) 
1 cup uncooked wheatberries 
Salt to taste 

Beans 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1/2 to 1 finely chopped chipotle from a can, a rehydrated and finely chopped dried chipotle or in a pinch, chipotle powder to taste 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 
1 1/2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1/2 cup water or broth 
1 3/4 cups cooked small red beans (from a 15-ounce can, or cooked from about 1/4 pound dried) 
Kosher or coarse salt to taste 

Fixings 
Minced white onion or picked red onions, lime wedges, hot sauce, pickled jalapenos, sour cream or Mexican crema, sliced avocado, pico de galo, crumbled or shredded cheese or some crumbled tortilla chips if you’re having trouble convincing your child to try it 

Make green grains: In a blender or food processor, combine poblanos, cilantro, onion and garlic with a splash of cooking broth or water and puree until smooth. In a medium saucepan, combine wheat berries, remaining cooking water or broth, 3/4 of green puree and salt to taste over high heat and bring to a boil. Reduce to a very low simmer and cover, cooking for 1 hour, or until grains are chewy-tender. Add remaining green puree and cook for 5 minutes more. 

Meanwhile, make red beans: In a smaller saucepan, heat olive oil over medium. Add garlic and cook for 30 seconds, just until sizzling. Add chipotle, cumin, oregano and tomato paste and cook together for 1 minute. Add water or broth, beans and salt to taste and bring to a gentle simmer. Cook for 10 minutes on low. 

Assemble and eat: For each bowl, I like about 2/3 grains and 1/3 beans, but you can go half-half as well. Top with desired fixings, don’t hold back. (The sour cream was particularly awesome here, in our opinion, although decidedly un-vegan.) Repeat as needed. 

* Cilantro: If you’ve been following along for a while here (although I cannot imagine why my persnickety ingredient preferences would hold your attention), you might have heard me refer over the years to cilantro as “the devil’s herb” as I am one of the unfortunate ones for whom it tastes mostly like dirt. Yes, unfortunate, as it comes on or in almost every cuisine I adore. I don’t know what came over me this week, but I went to the store with a plan to replace the cilantro with parsley, as I often do, and bought the evil greens instead. And cooked with them. And ate them. Maybe it’s the blending with peppers, onions and broth that mellowed it. Maybe, for once, these food cravings could be for good, and not just butter. Either way: hooray! 

START RECIPE
red bean chili 
JULY 11, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Last week someone said to me, “You know, my tastes are more Julia Child but my lifestyle is more 30 Minute Meals,” and I thought–really quite smugly, I’m embarrassed to say–“I’m so glad I have all this free time.” 

This week I am more certain than ever of the crack I was smoking. Seriously, does anyone else have such denial over what their schedules are and are not? Let me tell you what actually happens in the Smitten Kitchen most nights of the week: My husband, being management and all (I tease), leaves work at 5 p.m. but first s me if we need anything from the store. I IM him some goofy aspirational shopping list in segments (“this is for dinner,” “this for a side dish,” “and these are for the frozen yogurt I am making for dessert,” “and this is so I can get a head-start on the cake I am baking this weekend!”) and then actually end up leaving the office at 6:30 p.m., running two errands, coming home dead exhausted and always a bit winded from four flights of stairs to a neat cluster of grocery bags on the kitchen floor and say meekly “Order sushi?” Because if there is anything I am not going to be starting at 8 p.m. on a Tuesday night, it’s dinner. And a side dish. And frozen yogurt. And cake. 

I know I may have accidentally given the impression that I cook dinner every night, but what I actually meant was “three times” and “on a good week.” Meanwhile, the web is bursting with tools and recipes that aim to find for us working stiffs some happy medium between coq au vin (we ate dinner at 10 p.m. that night. TEN.) and “pierce holes in the plastic and microwave for five to seven minutes”–oh, and Kung Pao Chicken–but most of them are such a mess of unnecessary cop-outs and cutesy (because, you know, if it’s not “cute!”, it won’t appeal to women, duh) titles that its hard to wade through and find the good bits. 

Beyond that, our culture’s worship of the “quick-n-easy” over the engaged and rewarding has always deterred me. I want a life bursting with complex activities and entrancing conversation, not shortcuts and quick-fixes. I actually enjoy the process of cooking as much as the outcome: I think if you get in the mindset that your only goal is to get from Place A to Place B, you miss too much. And I like getting my hands dirty. 

Just not last night, you know? 

red bean chili 

Red Bean Chili 
Adapted from Real Simple Magazine 

This may seem an unseemly amount of chili powder, but it makes the flavor jump right off the plate with a minimum of ingredients. Plus, the mahogany-garnet hue in the photo was exactly what made this recipe call to me. It was even prettier in person, despite the horrible photos above. 

2 to 2 1/4 pounds lean ground beef or turkey 
1 large onion, chopped (about 1 1/2 cups) 
5 cloves garlic, minced 
1 cup canned beef broth 
1/3 cup chili powder 
1 tablespoon ground cumin 
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa (optional, but I never make chili without it) 
1 14 1/2-ounce can diced tomatoes 
2 15 1/2-ounce cans kidney beans, drained 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 tablespoon cider vinegar 

To taste: Tabasco, 1/2 to 1 teaspoon cayenne or 1 to 2 tablespoons chipotle en adobo puree 

Optional toppings and sides: grated Cheddar, sour cream, minced jalapeno, corn bread 

Place a large Dutch oven or saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the beef or turkey and cook until browned, about 5 minutes. Add the onion, stirring well, and cook until translucent, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook 1 minute more. Gradually add the broth, scraping up any browned bits from the bottom of the Dutch oven. Stir in the chili powder, cumin, cocoa and tomatoes. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and let simmer for 10 minutes. Add the beans, salt, and vinegar, stirring well. Simmer uncovered for 10 minutes more. Adjust flavor with your spices of choice. Garnish with the Cheddar, sour cream, and jalapeno, if desired. Serve hot, with corn bread, if desired. 

START RECIPE
red kidney bean curry 
FEBRUARY 17, 2009 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
I have a confession to make: For years, I have been cooking a dish that I love very very much but I haven’t told you about it because it comes from two words that I cannot bring myself to publicly own up to.* Especially on a site where if you suggested I use one, I’d suggest you haven’t been paying attention. 


It’s a box mix, people. And it makes the most fantastic rajmah, or kidney bean curry. Wait! Let me explain. Long before I had cooked a single Indian dish, I was overwhelmed at the thought of it. I didn’t have the spices. I didn’t know which spices I’d want. I was sure I’d use them all wrong. There’s like an art and a science to this and I am a dilettante in the world of Indian cooking. 

kidney beans 

And one day we were at Whole Foods, and they of course had some cooking samples out, these provided from a company that was packaging Indian spice mixes for classic dishes, for which they helpfully provided recipes on the back. The aloo gobi was okay. The chicken tikka masala was, you know, not bad either. But the kidney bean curry? Swoon. We took it home with us that very night. 

In the years since, I have found Indian recipes I can’t get enough of. There are Curried Lentils and Sweet Potatoes, Tangy Cabbage Salads and an Everyday Yellow Dal, Red Split Lentils with Cabbage, Indian-Spiced Vegetable Fritters and my favorite, the one that we make many times a year, Indian-Spiced Cauliflower and Potatoes. 

indian spiced cauliflower and potatoes 

And we always serve it with my super-secret rajmah mix. In fact, my shame associated with taking spices from a packaged mix was so great, I failed to note this wee detail: I was actually cooking this dish from scratch! There are beans, chopped tomotoes, canned sauce, fresh ginger and onion and garlic and chiles and you prep them all yourself and seriously, does this sound to you like a box mix? No? That’s because all it provides is the spices. Spices that, as it turns out, are already in my spice rack. 

Once I did realize this, it wasn’t long before I no longer even needed it for that. Free at last! And free to share without shame. 

red kidney bean curry 

* I promise, you will never see a Smitten Kitchen recipe that says, “first, buy this thing from this brand at this store.” 

One year ago: Pasta Puttanesca, Broken Artichoke Heart Salad 
Two years ago: Dill Bread 

Red Kidney Bean Curry [Rajmah] 
Adapted from an Arora spice blend 

This is an Indian cousin of your favorite spicy red bean chili. 

Serves 6 

1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil 
1/4 cup chopped fresh ginger (I use half this: I’m tepid in the fresh ginger department) 
1 medium onion, finely chopped 
1 plum tomato, diced 
3 cloves garlic, chopped 
1 large green chili, chopped (optional) 
1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 
1/2 teaspoon ground tumeric 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne 
8 ounce can of tomato sauce or 8 ounces of one of your choice 
3 cups boiled red kidney beans or 30 ounces canned red kidney beans, undrained 
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro (or parsley, if you’re cilantro-averse) 

Heat oil in a deep sauce pan over medium heat for one minute. Add ginger, garlic, onion, green chili, and let sizzle for one minute. Add the tomato sauce, salt and remaining spices and cook for an additional five minutes, stirring frequently. Add the kidney beans with water or canned red kidney beans (undrained) plus one additional cup of water, and tomatoes. Bring it to a boil, then reduce to medium heat and let cook uncovered for 10 minutes. Remove from heat. Garnish with cilantro. 

Serve over rice or with naan. A dollop of plain yougurt on top is heavenly. 

START RECIPE
roasted leek and white bean galettes 
NOVEMBER 18, 2015 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Is this a good place to admit that in all years I sat down at the Thanksgiving table when I didn’t eat meat, it never occurred to me that I needed an alternative meal? Because: sweet potatoes. Because: green beans. Because: stuffing and cranberries and dinner rolls and four types of pie! My plate was heavy. My face was stuffed. I mean, who’s really in it for the turkey? 


it's a buttery crust, you could say 
ready to roast 

But, you’re probably a better vegetarian than I was (one who does not consider a montage of side dishes a proper meal) or at least a better host (one who believes every guest, regardless of diet, deserves a main dish), which means that you are probably currently ted with making something vegetable-centric that’s a) not just everyone else’s side dish, b) ideally contains protein too, c) would be a good fit for the other harvest-y flavors on the table, i.e. no small order. 

roasted leeks, could be roasted longer 
mix the filling 

May I suggest a galette? These savory free-form pies have been an Smitten Kitchen favorite since our 2006 inception. There was one with Wild Mushrooms and Stilton, Butternut Squash and Caramelized Onions, Zucchini and Ricotta, Cabbage and Mushroom and even one with Burst Tomato with Zucchini and Corn (no side-eye over the zucchini, please, there were several at the market this week! Corn, yeah, not so much). Or, if you’re looking for something new, how about this one with roasted leeks, white beans, a little lemon, garlic and really never enough gruyere cheese? 

pile of filling 

Here’s the thing: any of these recipes will make one large (that can be cut into 8 appetizer-portion wedges) or four smaller ones that could replace turkey and gravy on a vegetarian plate. The dough keeps for a week in the fridge and longer in the freezer. The baked galettes keep for at least two days in peak form in the fridge and rewarm fantastically and all are also good nearing room temperature, which means that even if you’re juggling a massive menu, they’re not going to add any last-minute cooking drama. Plus, most essentially, they’re insanely good with the flakiest dough I know how to make and flavorful fillings and really don’t be surprised if people forgo the turkey to grab one of these instead. 

ready to bake 
roasted leek and white bean galettes 

One year ago: Classic Pecan Pie with Praline Sauce 
Two years ago: Green Bean Casserole with Crispy Onions 
Three years ago: Spinach Salad with Warm Bacon Vinaigrette 
Four years ago: Gingersnaps 
Five years ago: Creamed Onions with Bacon and Chives 
Six years ago: Sweet Potato Buttermilk Pie 
Seven years ago: Winter Fruit Salad and Mushroom and Barley Pie 
Eight years ago: Pumpkin Waffles and Creamy White Polenta with Mushrooms 
Nine years ago: Cranberry Sauce, Three Ways, Tomato and Sausage Risotto and Sundried Tomato Stuffed Mushrooms 

And for the other side of the world: 
Six Months Ago: Fake Shack Burger 
1.5 Years Ago: Soft Pretzel Buns and Knots 
2.5 Years Ago: Greek Salad with Lemon and Oregano 
3.5 Years Ago: Vidalia Onion Soup with Wild Rice 
4.5 Years Ago: Rhubarb Streusel Muffins 

Roasted Leek and White Bean Galettes 
Filling inspired by this Food & Wine gratin 

For the pastry: 
1 1/4 cups (160 grams) all-purpose flour 
1/4 teaspoon table salt 
8 tablespoons (4 ounces or 115 grams) cold unsalted butter, cut into pieces and chill again 
1/4 cup (60 grams) plain yogurt or sour cream 
2 teaspoons (10 ml) fresh lemon juice 
1/4 cup (60 ml) ice water 

For the filling 
6 small-to-medium leeks, dark green tops discarded, white and light green parts halved lengthwise 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
Kosher salt 
Freshly ground black pepper 
1 15-ounce can cannellini beans, rinsed and drained 
1 garlic clove, minced 
1/4 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest 
1/4 cup chopped flat-leaf parsley 
2/3 cup grated gruyère cheese, divided 

Glaze: 
1 egg yolk beaten with 1 teaspoon water 

Make dough: Stir the flour and salt together in a large bowl. Sprinkle bits of butter over dough and, using a pastry blender or your fingertips, work it into the flour until the mixture resembles coarse meal, with the biggest pieces of butter the size of tiny peas. In a small bowl, stir together the sour cream, lemon juice and water and add this to the butter-flour mixture. With your fingertips or a wooden spoon, mix in the liquid until large lumps form. Pat the lumps into a ball. Wrap with plastic and refrigerate for 1 hour, or up to 2 days. 

Meanwhile, prepare filling: Heat the oven to 400 degrees F. Arrange leeks cut-side-up in a large (9×13-inch) baking dish. Drizzle with olive oil. Sprinkle with 1 teaspoon kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper. Flip the leeks so that their cut sides face down, add 3 tablespoons of water to the dish, cover tightly with aluminum foil and bake for 20 minutes until tender. Uncover and continue roasting the leeks for 10 to 15 minutes, or until caramelized. Leave oven on. Let leeks cool slightly, then chop into segments and place in a large bowl. Toss with beans, garlic, lemon zest, parsley, 1/2 cup grated cheese and season with salt and pepper to taste. 

Assemble galettes: Divide dough into 4 pieces. On a floured counter, roll the first piece dough out into a roughly 8-inch round, although it really doesn’t need to be perfectly shaped. Transfer to a large parchment-lined baking sheet: I like to fold my dough gently, without creasing, in quarters then unfold it onto the baking pan. Sprinkle about 1/4 of the prepared filling into the center of the dough, leaving a 1 1/2-inch border. Sprinkle with about 1/4 of the remaining cheese. Fold the border over the filling, pleating the edge to make it fit. The center will be open. Brush crust with egg yolk glaze. Repeat with remaining dough and filling, making 4 small galettes. 

Bake the galettes: For 25 to 30 minutes, until golden brown all over. Remove from the oven and let stand for 5 minutes, then slide the galette onto a serving plate. Or, if you’re planning ahead, let cool completely and refrigerate until needed. Gently rewarm before serving in a low oven. 

START RECIPE
sheet pan meatballs with crispy turmeric chickpeas 
JANUARY 16, 2018 JUMP TO RECIPE, COMMENTS 
In October of last year, I made one of the best, and prettiest, dinners I’d had all year and couldn’t wait to tell you about them. Then I got a *little* (29 flights and 24 cities in 7 weeks) busy and somehow (somehow!) they — along with the Dutch apple pie, this endive salad and some brown butter carrots I’m still holding out on you — fell by the wayside. And so let me present a long-overdue entry in the Best of 2017 files, eagerly hoping to make a run in 2018. 

what you'll need, kindaseason and spice the chickpeastoss the spiced chickpeas with half of onion slicesmix the meatballs 

This dish is inspired by two others. The first is a favorite recipe from my first cookbook, the sesame-spiced turkey meatballs that teeter on a lemony smashed chickpea salad: I will forever love the combination of lemon, spices, chickpeas and just enough protein to balance the meal out. The second is a sheet pan chicken with turmeric, roasted and lightly pickled red onions and lemon I spied on the New York Times website last year and couldn’t get out of my head. However, I’m on a bit of a meatball kick, especially since I recently realized (only after all of you have been telling me for years and me stubbornly waiting to find out) how easy they are to bake, and how delightfully they keep their golf ball shape when you do. And those spiced meatballs, just barely ed, work fantastically here. 


form the meatballscrisp the chickpeasadd the meatballslemony pickle half the onion 

The result is packed with flavors, textures and color: and we scooped it into bowls with lemony salted yogurt and lightly pickled onions and pita wedges, and all I want it more fun, playful dinners like this all year. 

sheet pan meatballs with chickpeas, turmeric and lemon 

PREVIOUSLY 
One year ago: Crusty Baked Cauliflower and Farro 
Two years ago: Swiss Chard Pancakes and Blood Orange Almond and Ricotta Cake 
Three years ago: My Ultimate Chicken Noodle Soup and Butterscotch Pudding 
Four years ago: Chicken Pho 
Five years ago: Gnocchi in Tomato Broth 
Six years ago: Buckwheat Baby with Salted Caramel 
Seven years ago: Pizza with Bacon, Onions, and Cream 
Eight years ago: Barley Risotto with Beans and Greens 
Nine years ago: Vanilla Almond Rice Pudding 
Ten years ago: Crunchy Baked Pork Chops and Pickled Carrot Sticks 
Eleven years ago: World Peace Cookies and Leek and Mushroom Quiche 

And for the other side of the world: 
Six Months Ago: Hummus Heaped with Tomatoes and Cucumbers 
1.5 Years Ago: Corn, Bacon and Parmesan Pasta 
2.5 Years Ago: Very Blueberry Scones 
3.5 Years Ago: Sticky Sesame Chicken Wings and Brownie Ice Cream Sandwiches 
4.5 Years Ago: Grilled Bacon Salad with Arugula and Balsamic and One-Pan Farro with Tomatoes 

Sheet Pan Meatballs with Chickpeas, Turmeric and Lemon 
SERVINGS: 4 TO 6 TIME: ABOUT AN HOUR SOURCE: TURMERIC CHICKPEAS ADAPTED FROM NYTIMES, MEATBALLS FROM THE SMITTEN KITCHEN COOKBOOK 
Meatballs take much less time to cook than chickpeas do to crisp, so they go in long after the chickpeas. The red onion that gets roasted will char a bit: we love it. Because I’ve been writing and reading comments here for as long as a 6th grader has been alive, I know that you’re about to tell me that you do not like fennel seeds. Yes, you can skip them. There’s enough else going on here. You could also add a teaspoon or two of whole cumin seeds, for an extra crunchy boost. But if you like fennel seeds or you’re on the fence, I think you’ll love them here.
If you’d like to keep this dish, and meatballs, dairy-free, you can replace the 1/4 cup plain yogurt with 2 tablespoons of water, bringing the water in the meatballs to 1/4 cup. And of course skip the salted lemon yogurt at the end.

CHICKPEAS 
2 (15-ounce) cans chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
1 tablespoon fennel seed 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1 large red onion, thinly sliced, divided 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
MEATBALLS 
1 pound (455 grams) ground turkey 
1/2 cup panko, or another plain, dry breadcrumb 
1/4 cup plain yogurt 
2 tablespoons water 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 large egg 
2 garlic cloves, minced 
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne, hot paprika, or red pepper flakes, plus more to taste 
2 tablespoons chopped cilantro, flat-leaf parsley or mint leaves, or a mix thereof, plus more to garnish 
TO SERVE 
3 tablespoons lemon juice (from about 3/4 of a lemon) 
3/4 cup plain yogurt 
Toasted pita wedges 
Harissa or another hot sauce
Heat oven to 400 degrees. Combine chickpeas, fennel seed, cumin, 1 teaspoon turmeric and half the red onion slices on a rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle with olive oil, season with salt and pepper and toss to coat. Roast for 25 minutes, until beginning to firm/crisp up. 
Meanwhile, make meatball mixture. Mix all ingredients in a large bowl with a fork or (my recent discovery) a potato masher to mix. Form into 1.75-inch meatballs: I use a 40 cookie scoop, which holds about 1 2/3 tablespoons. 

Remove sheet pan with chickpeas from the oven (leave oven on) and move the chickpeas to the sides of the pan, clearing a space in the center. Lightly coat center with a thin coat of oil, either brush or spray it on, just to be safe. Place baking sheet in oven and bake 10 to 15 minutes, or until meatballs are cooked through. 

Meanwhile, toss remaining onion slices with 2 tablespoons lemon juice and season with salt and pepper: set aside. 

Combine yogurt with remaining 1 tablespoon lemon juice and season with salt and pepper: set aside. 

When meatballs are cooked, scatter remaining fresh herbs over the tray. Serve with lemony onions and yogurt, toasted pita wedges and hot sauce. Repeat as often as needed. 


START RECIPE
smashed chickpea salad 
JANUARY 19, 2009 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
It has been over one week since I told you about the Light Wheat Bread (and just as long since we’ve been out of it, sob), a post I ended with a promise to tell you about my new favorite sandwich next. But instead I told you about Clementine Cakes and then Mushroom Bourguignon and Chouquettes and do you know what happened? Not a single person griped that they were owed a sandwich. Because really, who does that? 


zesting the lemonjuicing the lemon 

I take issue with the banality of most sandwich recipes. I will actually change the channel if I see a food program that walks viewers through making one of any kind. I mean, is this how low the bar has dropped for “cooking”? But it’s not the shows that are to blame, I think, or not fully: it’s the sandwiches. Most sandwiches are dull. Some sliced stuff and schmear between two uninspired slices of bread. Who can stay awake for that? 

ready to mix and mash 

Now, now, before you write me off as some sort of unsettling creature that doesn’t even like sandwiches, it’s not the case. In fact, I do say I got my sandwich mojo back a couple years ago, the first time I tried a sandwich from Tom Colicchio’s* ‘wichcraft chain. Grilled gruyere with caramelized onions, a slow-roasted pork with red cabbage and jalapenos, a now defunct but deeply missed salami with pickled cauliflower sandwich… is anyone else drooling? 

smashing the chickpeas 

But favorite has always been the simplest, or maybe the silliest to pay $7 a pop for: the lemony chopped chickpea sandwich, which is really a decontructed hummus and I have been long overdue to make it at home. I couldn’t believe how easy it was. I couldn’t believe how much better it was at home. I — the person who is so utterly bored by sandwiches, she would have stopped reading this post three paragraphs ago — have a favorite sandwich. I mean, salad. I mean… have fun with it. 

smashed chickpea salad sandwich 

* … Who is not only smoking hot, but a lifesaver, swoon. 

One year ago: Fried Chicken 
Two years ago: Grapefruit Yogurt Cake 


Smashed Chickpea Salad 
Inspired by ‘wichcraft 
1 15-ounce can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
2 tablespoons pitted, halved and very thinly sliced black olives 
1 tablespoon finely chopped red onion 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley 
Zest and juice from half a lemon (if you’ve got one of those sad, juiceless lemons, use both sides for juice) 
Couple good pinches of salt 
A few grinds of black pepper 
A few glugs of olive oil (the original is quite oily, like bread-soaking oily, I went a little lighter. Both ways are delicious) 

Mix everything but the olive oil in a small to midsize bowl. Very lightly smash the chickpea mixture with the back of a fork or a potato masher. You’re not looking for a hummus-like puree but something closer to a coarse chop with a few smaller bits to hold it together. Add the glugs of olive oil, mix it lightly and enjoy. 

This is also awesome as a sandwich on toasted bread, and it needs nothing else on it. But, if you want to doll it up, here are some ideas: A slice of roasted red pepper (as they do at ‘wichcraft), watercress (ditto), a slice of pickled garlicky red pepper (our way). We schmeared the bread with a tahini dressing, which was just tahini, lemon juice and a minced garlic clove thinned with water, but if you’ve got some harissa, I bet that would also be delicious. 

START RECIPE
spicy squash salad with lentils and goat cheese 
OCTOBER 27, 2010 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Odds are, this week is full of sugar for you. Chewy sugar, hard shiny sugar, sugar molded into candy corn, fluffed into marshmallows, coating adorable little popsicles of cake, wound with brown butter around grains of puffed rice and that doesn’t even include the peanut butter cups you’ll pilfer from your kid’s trick-or-treat bucket this weekend followed by the sweet slide from Thanksgiving’s marshmallow-topped sweet potatoes and December’s minty candy canes. 


black lentils, soaking 
bucheron 

I, for one, could really go for a salad right now. I’ve been roasting a lot of squash and sweet potatoes lately, usually for the half-toothed member of our family and one day, I was looking to turn it into more of a fall salad and I stumbled upon a recipe from Bon Appetit. I nixed the arugula because the stuff I found at the market was spotty, and anyway, (gripe alert!) I like challenging myself to make salads that don’t hinge on leaves that are only in season a very small fraction of the times of the year people insist you should eat them. (End gripe.) I used a butternut squash instead of a pumpkin because they seem to roast up in cubes better, and also because they’re a much easier shape for my little sherpa to hold in his lap (and only occasionally gnaw on) as we head home from the market. I added toasted butternut squash seeds because I love some crunch with my salads and do hope you know they toast up almost as delightfully as pumpkin seeds. Finally, I used black lentils because that’s what I had in my  pantry and what’s prettier in the last week of October than a black and orange medley? 

butternut peelings 

cubed 

The results are deceptively filling: this is main-course salad material, as it should be. The squash was spicy and smoky, two flavors I love against naturally sweet foods: I realized it had been way too long since we’d eaten lentils, and the goat cheese was a perfect accent and indulgence. More urgently, we’re hoping it staved off the effects of what I’m going to tell you about next time, which can only be summarized as the anti-salad. Oops. 

spiced butternut squash, half 
squash and lentil salad with goat cheese 

One year ago: Silky, Decadent Old-School Chocolate Mousse 
Two years ago: Pink Lady Cake and a Cabbage and Mushroom Galette 
Three years ago: Sweet Potato and Sausage Soup 
Four years ago: Spinach Quiche and Pumpkin Muffins 

Spicy Squash Salad with Lentils and Goat Cheese 
Adapted from Bon Appetit 

If you’d like to toast the seeds, simply clean them off, rinse and pat them dry and toast them in the oven on an oiled baking sheet, sprinkled with salt. But this comes with a warning: they like to pop, seemingly more than regular pumpkin seeds do, or maybe it’s just my bad luck. I suspect if you let them dry out for a day first, they wouldn’t, but who has that kind of patience? 

Serves 6 as an appetizer, 3 as a main 

3/4 cup black or green lentils 
6 cups peeled, seeded and cubed butternut squash or sugar pumpkin (1-inch cubes) (from about a 2-poudn squash) 
3 tablespoons olive oil, divided 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1 teaspoon hot smoked Spanish paprika* 
1/2 teaspoon coarse salt 
4 cups baby arugula (I skipped this) 
1 cup soft crumbled goat cheese 
1/4 cup thinly sliced mint leaves (optional: I used this, but added it after I took a photo) 
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar, plus additional to taste 
Roasted seeds (about 1/2 cup) from your butternut squash (optional: see note above) 

Preheat oven to 400°F. Toss squash or pumpkin cubes with 2 tablespoons oil, cumin, paprika and salt. Arrange in a single layer on baking sheet and roast 20 minutes. Flip pieces and roast for an additional 10 to 15 minutes, until tender. Cool. 

Meanwhile, soak lentils for 10 minutes in a small bowl, then drain. Cook lentils in boiling salted water until tender but firm, about 30 minutes. Rinse with cold water, then drain and cool. 

Combine lentils, pumpkin, any oil you can scrape from the baking sheet (I didn’t get enough for this to be worth it) with arugula, if using, half of goat cheese, mint, vinegar, and 1 tablespoon oil. Season with salt and pepper and extra vinegar, if desired (we felt it needed it). Divide among plates and pass with remaining goat cheese to sprinkle. 

* I swapped half with sweet (not hot) smoked paprika to make sure it didn’t get too spicy for a 13 month-old’s tastes. If you don’t have either on hand, there are ways to approximate this smoky/spiciness with what you have in your pantry, such as mixing some regular paprika with a ground chipotle powder or another smoky spice, and then a pinch of cayenne for extra heat. 

START RECIPE
spinach and chickpeas 
MARCH 17, 2010 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
First off, this dish is not called “spinach and chickpeas”, it is espinacas con garbanzos. Don’t you agree? “Spinach and chickpeas” is something you eat because you should — it is healthy and you aspire to be. Espinacas con garbanzos is something you eat because it sounds sexy, and doesn’t taste half bad either. It’s hearty and smoky with a little kick, you eat it on little fried bread toasts at a tapas bar in Spain. 


chickpeas, from the slow cooker 

Or, you know, in New York City on another brutally rainy March night. My friend Ang had a tapas pot-luck last Friday (the baby ditched us for a better party at his grandparents house) and, yes, I brought a Spanish dish to a Spanish party that did not include a single format of pork. Wild! Hey, I figured others would have the chorizos and jamón serranos covered. Me, I wanted some Spanish comfort food. I’d tried a version of this dish a few years ago, thanks to the sweet nudging of Ximena at Lobstersquad and instantly loved it. It sounds like it would be too simple to hold your interest, perhaps something you’d eat because you “ought” to, but it tastes like something you’ll crave again and again. 

draining the spinach 

To make the dish, I used a blend of Ximena’s recipe and the fancier restaurant version in Moro: The Cookbook, a book I am going to confess that I cannot open very often because I immediately want to make every single thing in it right that very second and this crashes into the reality of being pressed for time and the longing, it is actually painful. No, I am not being melodramatic: Feta Salad with Spinach, Crispbread, Sumac and Pinenuts! Chestnut and Chorizo Soup! Seared Sirloin Salad with Barley and Grapes! And let’s not forgot that these are the same folks behind one of my favorite dishes on earth, this Warm Butternut Squash and Chickpea Salad with Tahini Dressing. Do you get it now? Sigh. 

espinacas con garbanzos 

I have digressed again. Good food distracts me like that. I think you’ll really like this dish. 

One year ago: Penne with Potatoes and Rocket 
Two years ago: Butterscotch Ice Cream 
Three years ago: Skillet Irish Soda Bread 

Espinacas con Garbanzos [Spinach and Chickpeas] 
Adapted from Moro: The Cookbook and Lobstersquad

One of the reason I blended recipes was because I wanted the approachability of Ximena’s version but also some of the extras in Moro’s — the vinegar, paprika and the fried bread, mashed to a paste. Except, in hindsight, I think I’d also enjoy this recipe without the bread. It would be a bit thinner and saucier and possibly harder to slop onto a piece of toast, but also a bit lighter — in weight, not just calories. If you’re bread-averse or think you’d enjoy it without the crumbs in the sauce, give it a spin and let us know how it goes. 

Tomato sauce, by the way, is emphatically not traditional in this dish but after making Ximena’s version with it — she says “you don’t have to use tomato in this recipe, but it’s so much better with it” — I can’t have it any other way. 

Last note: This recipe is flexible. If you end up with a little less spinach or a little more sauce, or if you want it with a little less this or a little more that, so be it. Enjoy it. Have fun with it. 

Serves 4 

1/2 pound (230 grams) dried chickpeas, cooked until soft and tender* or two 15-ounce cans of chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
6 tablespoon olive oil 
1 pound (450 grams) spinach, washed 
A hefty 1-inch slice from a country loaf or about 2 slices from sandwich loaf bread (2.5 ounces or 75 grams), crusts removed and cut inset small cubes 
1/2 cup (4 ounces) tomato sauce (I used canned stuff I keep around) 
3 garlic cloves, thinly sliced 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
Pinch of red pepper flakes 
1 1/2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 
1/2 teaspoon smoked paprika** 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Lemon juice, to taste 

Place a large saucepan over medium heat and add half the olive oil. When it is hot, add the spinach with a pinch of salt (in batches, if necessary) and stir well. Remove when the leaves are just tender, drain in a colander and set aside. 

Heat 2 more tablespoons olive oil in a frying pan over medium heat. Fry the bread for about 5 minutes or until golden brown all over, then the remaining tablespoon of oil and the garlic, cumin and pepper. Cook for 1 minute more or until the garlic is nutty brown. 

Transfer to a food processor, blender or mortar and pestle along with the vinegar, and mash to a paste. Return the mixture to the pan and add the drained chickpeas and tomato sauce. Stir until the chickpeas have absorbed the flavors and are hot. Season with salt and pepper. 

If the consistency is a little thick, add some water. Add the spinach and cook until it is hot. Check for seasoning and serve with paprika on top, or on fried bread toasts (as the Spanish do). 

* I make all of my dried beans in the slow-cooker these days. They are perfect every time, and the flavor of fresh beans — even the sad-looking ones from grocery store bins I used — is incomparable. No presoaking, just cover them 2 to 3 inches of water and cook them 3 hours on high. (I have learned that cooking time can vary widely in slow-cookers so allot more time than you might need. I often make mine in the day or days before and let them cool in their cooking water, which is then by then very flavorful.) 

** This might be my favorite ingredient on earth — it’s amazing on eggs and potatoes, too. If you can’t find it locally, Amazon and Penzeys are among a bunch of places that sell it online. 

START RECIPE
spinach quiche 
OCTOBER 23, 2006 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
After a week that felt nothing short of chaotic and angsty, this weekend was just what the over-tangled brain ordered. Saturday, we headed to the surprisingly-empty and orchre-tinted foliage deprived Brooklyn Botanic Garden for a few hours. Still, wandering around snapping up this and that to contribute my quota of flower pictures to the internet was turned out to be exactly the antidote my week called for. 


brooklyn botanic 

Alas, no day could be perfect without cooking for the people I love, I insisted upon pulling together dinner for my husband and sister-in-law before heading out to see The Prestige. Along with the reheated stinktastic galette leftovers and the best pantry staple, Caesar salad, in some sort of miracle I managed to get my favorite quiche together in under an hour. I’ve been making this spinach quiche for so long, I feel almost possessive of it, forgetting that that somewhere, other people must too, and now I am encouraging you, also. It’s fantastically simple, three everyday cheeses, some green onions and a box of frozen spinach, and keeps so well, it’s actually tastier the next day, with the flavors cool, settled and happily enmeshed. Don’t be put off by its overly-healthy and wholesome appearance, it tastes like a treat and I can’t wait to feast on it with a green salad for lunch this week. 

from the oven 

On Sunday, I finally peeled back the cover of the November Gourmet (I’ve had it a whole five days: I’m such a slacker) and became so over-excited, I nearly ate the pages. “Root vegetable gratin!” “Pumpkin muffins!” “S’more pie!” “Brussel sprouts with shallots and mushrooms!” I burst arrhythmically from the back seat of the car on the way out to my in-laws. “Breathe Debbie,” my husband feebly attempted. “Poppy seed sweet bread!” “Barbara Streisand!” 

brooklyn botanic 

Unable to restrain myself any longer — it had been a whole 45 minutes, you see — I simmered the Dominican beans at my in-laws to accompany our dinner, and while I have no pictures, you’ll have to trust me that they’re delicious, a recipe worth clipping. However, this still leftme with nearly a quarter of the page’s corners turned down, calling my name. 

granola 

If the world worked exactly the way I think it should, I would be able to take this whole week off from work just to try to have a go with all of them, but alas, reality always checks in Sunday night. I did manage to squeeze in one more treat, however: the fresh granola with pepitas from Calle Ocho in New York City. We fell asleep with all sorts of toasted deliciousness lingering in the air. I still had to get up and go to that whole day job thing, but somehow the prospect of something new and better on my morning yogurt made the whole thing a lot more bearable. That, and a promise that you, me and those pumpkin muffins are going to have some quality time together very very soon. 

granola, a little stuck 

[Soundtrack: All My Life, Paul Westerberg, Singles Soundtrack, because it refuses to leave my head.] 

Spinach Quiche 
Adapted from Bon Appetit, October 1991 

One half-recipe of Martha Stewart’s Pâte Brisée, rolled out and pressed into either a pie dish or removable-bottom tart pan. If you are a dork like me, you might take the extra scraps, cut them into leaf shapes, and press them about on the top of your unbaked quiche. But then your husband might tease you for your fall theme. Might.

1 3-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature 
1/3 cup half and half 
3 eggs 
1 10-ounce package frozen chopped spinach, thawed and drained 
1/2 cup grated cheddar 
1/4 cup grated Parmesan 
4 to 6 green onions, sliced 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 

Preheat oven to 425°F. Beat cream cheese in medium bowl until smooth. Gradually beat in half and half and eggs. Mix in remaining ingredients. Pour mixture into prepared crust. Bake until crust is golden brown and filling is set, about 25 minutes. Cool 10 minutes before serving. 

Dominican Beans 
Adapted from Gourmet, November 2006 

2 (14- to 15-oz.) cans pink or pinto beans, drained and rinsed 
4 cups water 
1 2-oz bunch cilantro (without roots) 
1 large onion, chopped 
2 large garlic gloves, chopped 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
3 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 tablespoon distilled white vinegar 
1 Cubanelle or Italian frying pepper (not spicy: 4 oz) halved lengthwise, steam and seeds discarded 
2 Turkish bay leaves or 1 California 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, crumbled 
1/2 teaspoon black pepper 

Puree half of beans in a food processor with 1 cup water until smooth. 

Tie cilantro into a tight bundle with string. 

Cook onion and garlic in olive oil in a 5- to 6-quart heavy pot over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until onion is softened but not brown, about 8 minutes. Add tomato paste, vinegar, and 1 cup water, then bring to boil and cook, stirring, 2 minutes. 

Add pureed and whole beans, Cubanelle pepper halves, cilantro, bay leaves, salt oregano, pepper, and remaining 2 cups of water, then simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, 1 1/2 hours (mixture will reduce and thicken). Remove and discard Cubanelle pepper halves, cilantro and bay leaves, then serve. 

Granola 
Adapted from Calle Ocho, New York City via Gourmet Magazine 

3 cups old-fashioned rolled oats 
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut 
1/2 cup vegetable oil* 
1/3 cup sliced almonds (1 oz) 
1/2 cup chopped walnuts 
1/3 cup green (hulled) pumpkin seeds, sometimes called pepitas (1 1/2 oz: not roasted) ** 
1/3 cup packed dark brown sugar 
1/4 cup mild honey 
Pinch cinnamon 
Pinch salt 
1 cup tart dried cherries *** 
1/2 cup dried blueberries 
1/2 cup dried pears (1/4-inch dice) 
1/2 cup diced dried apricots (1/4 inch dice) 
1/3 cup golden raisins 

Accompaniment: Sliced bananas: plain yogurt flavored with vanilla extract. 

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375°F. Stir together all ingredients except the fruit in a large bowl until combined. Spread mixture evenly on a large (17-by 12-inch) shallow baking pan**** and bake, stirring occasionally, until golden brown, 30 to 35 minutes. Transfer granola, in pan, to rack to cool stirring occasionally, about 45 minutes. Stir in dried fruit. 

Granola keeps, frozen (the fruit’s moisture softens granola if not kept frozen) in an airtight container, 1 month. 

* I got away with 1/3 cup. 
** I accidentally bought the roasted ones – which are by the way, so tasty, can’t stop snacking on them – so I mixed them in just as I took it out of the oven, when the sugars were still melted and they gummed to the granola as if they’d been there the whole time. 
*** From the picture, you can tell I just use whichever dried fruits I’m craving. Actually, this isn’t entirely true. The store was out of dried cranberries, my favorite, so I substituted cherries. I’m still short a lot of dried fruit, but plan to remedy that soon. 
**** Next time I do this, I’m lining it with foil. When the granola came out of the oven, it’s soft and in smaller pieces. When I returned 15 minutes later, it was like one giant, loosely-packed granola bar. This is wonderful as you can break it up into whatever size chunks you like, but bad because it had stuck a bit to the pan, making for an annoying cleanup. 

START RECIPE
spring panzanella 
APRIL 4, 2008 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Every morning, I wake up and I have to remind myself that it is not spring yet. I push past all of the cute spring clothes I’ve overeagerly purchased and reach for one of the sweaters and lined pants I swear I have worn ten hundred thousand times since September and I was tired of them then: It’s not spring yet. I read food blogs from people in Paris and San Francisco, fawning over the new strawberries and colorful produce at their farmers’ markets and go to ours and see the same cabbage and potatoes (though I’m crossing my fingers for ramps today) as before: It’s not spring yet. And I honestly don’t know why I would expect to be spring in the first week of April when it is never spring in New York during the first week of April but still, I have never been more impatient for the world to warm up around me. 


sourish bread cubs 

But last weekend it was at least unfrozen enough to take little walk that landed us at the Balthazar Bakery where we split the most mildly sweet and adorably tiny pistachio doughnut ever and picked a small boule of their “sourish” (their description, not mine) white bread and proceeded to forget about it (shame, shame) until it staled. Suddenly, there on the subway platform a couple days later I started scheming about a spring panzanella that would make me feel better about how far off warm weather seems. 

leeksasparagus 

I busted out my reporter’s notebook and everything, listing things that might work: Green beans? (Nixed because they’re really summer produce.) Leeks? (Because I love them but how would they hold together?) Asparagus! (Because at least we have that around here.) Meyer lemon vinaigrette? (Like I could resist.) White beans! (I had a bit leftover from the cassoulet, and cannot let my Rancho Gordos go to waste!) And all of a sudden I was finally not driving Alex crazy while I griped over the indiginity of a late spring but totally excited to create my own in the kitchen. 

ingredientssourish croutons 

It’s 50 degrees and rainy in New York City today–I hope this helps. And for those of you in different seasons and continents right now, there are summer and winter panzanellas in the archives. 

One year ago: Artichoke, Cranberry Bean and Arugula Salad 

Spring Panzanella 

I’m not going to lie: it is a little awkward to slice and cook leeks like this. But I love them, and I love them in this. If you’re eeked out by trying to slice the slippery guys into segments, you might swap them out with an extra pound of asparagus, green beans, or even lightly cooked carrots. 

Serves about 4 as a main and 6 as a side 

For the croutons: 
1/4 cup olive oil 
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
6 cups day-old bread, crust removed, cubed 
6 tablespoons finely grated Parmesan, plus more for garnish 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 

For the vinaigrette: 
Half a red onion, finely diced 
2 to 2 1/2 tablespoons champagne or white wine vinegar 
Juice of half a lemon 
1/4 cup olive oil 
1/2 teaspoon Dijon mustard 

For the salad: 
4 large leeks 
2 teaspoons salt 
1 pound asparagus 
1 19-ounce can of white beans, rinsed and drained or 1 1/2 cups cooked white beans 

Preheat oven to 400°F. 

Mix the bread cubes with the garlic, olive oil, parmesan, salt and pepper in a large bowl. Toss to coat well. Transfer bread to a baking sheet and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Bake stirring once or twice, until the croutons are crisp and lightly colored on the outside but still soft within, about 10 to 15 minutes. Set aside and let cool. 

Mix the red onion with the vinegar and lemon juice in a small bowl and set aside for a few minutes before whisking in the remaining vinaigrette ingredients: olive oil and dijon. Set aside. 

Cut off dark green tops of leeks and trim root ends. Halve each leek lengthwise to within 2 inches of root end. Rinse well under cold running water to wash away sand. Cover leeks with cold water in a 12-inch heavy skillet. Add salt and simmer leeks, uncovered, until tender, 15 to 20 minutes. 

Without draining the cooking water (you will reuse it for the asparagus), transfer leeks to a bowl of ice and cold water to stop cooking, then pat the leeks dry with paper towels. Break off tough ends of asparagus and cook it in the boiling water until crisp-tender, no more than three minutes if they’re pencil-thin, more if your asparagus is thicker. Transfer it to another bowl of ice water, drain and pat it dry. 

Cut the leeks and the asparagus each into one-inch segments–the leeks will be especially slippery and prone to separating: hold firm and use a sharp knife! Place pieces in a large bowl and mix in beans and cooled parmesan croutons. Pour vinaigrette over and toss well. Season with salt and pepper. 

START RECIPE
spring vegetable stew 
JUNE 5, 2007 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Last month, en route to a cousin’s baby shower in Connecticut, my mother, sister and I realized that we needed a new envelope for the card we’d brought and swung into a strip shopping mall which housed a crafts store. I ran in to buy one, and found myself smack dab in front of something so mind-blowingly awesome, it took me nearly a minute to remember to breathe: as if I couldn’t love her any more, Martha Stewart apparently has a line of crafts products, and people, if there are two things I’m powerless in the face of, it’s a rack that contains not one, not two, but eleven different types of crafts glue and their doyenne. That I walked out of the store that day with not a single MSC product is nothing but a testament to my refuse-to-overstuff-my-tiny-apartment willpower, but it’s been three weeks now, and still, almost every other worth that breathlessly escapes my lips sounds like MonkeyPartyinaBox! or PaperBagPuppetKit! I am nothing if not a sensible, level-headed individual. 


shelling peas 

Monday, the mailroom guy arrived at my desk with the Biggest Box in the Whole world, and people, it was from Martha Stewart Freaking Crafts Dot Com. I shit you not. I briefly worried that I had in fact lost what was left of my mind and ordered a Leaf Wood Stamp 1 whilst drunk or something. (Hey, some people drunk-dial exes, perhaps drunk-buying multi-colored Evening Terrace Decorative Adhesive could be my thing. Can you imagine what a riot it would be to tell this story at a party?) I mean, this really crossed my mind, and left me so panicked that I went to see if I had an account, or old emails confirming an order, but retrieved nothing. So I IM-ed Alex and confessed that I thought I might be placing orders on MarthaStewartCrafts.com in my sleep, and why couldn’t I just be a normal girl and sleep-shop for Manolos? And do you know what knee-weakening sweet nothing he whispered into my monitor? Do you? 

“That’s box one of two.” 

Hummuna. Did I score well or what? 

favas, out of their pods 

I suspect you want to know what’s in this box, but I can’t tell you because I don’t know. My birthday, you see, is not until next week and frankly, the excitement of having this g’normous box in my cube–really, I’m like a one-year old, equally excited by a box and it’s contents–will definitely be able to hold me over until then. No peeking for you, either, okay? Until that time however, and because we’ve already dedicated this entry to how awesome my boy is, I have to tell you about this delicious we meal we cooked together last week. 

favas 

It was a real team effort, and I dare say that it will inspire more going forward. The recipe comes by way of a New York Times Magazine article about artichokes by Sara Dickerman, and being equally huge fans of both the green globes as well as Sara’s column on Slate.com, I couldn’t wait to dive in. 

If you can find those true baby artichokes (we’re talking 3? or less in diameter), even better, as you can spare yourself the t of de-choking them, as there is nothing inedible inside. 

fresh peas 

The first time for either of us, we shucked fresh peas and favas which was pretty fun as far as prep work goes. They were stewed with baby artichokes, onion, pancetta and stirred with fresh mint and parsley in a Roman-style spring stew known as La Vignarola. Hefty and fresh, it was a stew like none I’ve eaten before and despite the loads of prep work–aided by good company and, of course, good wine–utterly worth it. I can’t wait to make it again next year. 

la vignarola 

La Vignarola [Roman-Style Spring-Vegetable Stew] 
Sara Dickerman for the New York Times 5/27/07 

Serves 6 as a side dish or first course. 

2 lemons, halved 
5 large artichokes (about 12 ounces each) 
11/2 cups shelled fresh or frozen fava beans, or shelled frozen edamame 
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more as needed 
1 large onion, thinly sliced 
1 sprig oregano, optional 
2 ounces guanciale or pancetta, slivered 
Salt 
2 cups shelled (fresh or frozen) peas 
1/4 cup chopped parsley 
2 tablespoons chopped mint 
* teaspoon lemon juice, plus more to taste 
Freshly ground black pepper. 

1. To prepare the artichokes: Fill a large bowl halfway with cold water. Squeeze the lemons into the water and add the rinds to the bowl. Using a serrated knife, cut off the top third of an artichoke. Pull back and snap off the dark green, leafy blades, one by one, until only the pale yellow leaves remain. Using a paring knife, trim the artichoke bottom and stem to the pale green flesh, then cut it in half lengthwise. Drop into the water (to keep the artichoke from turning brown) and repeat with the remaining artichokes. Using a spoon, scoop out the prickly leaves and hairy choke. Cut each half into 4 wedges and return to the water until ready to use. 

2. If using fresh fava beans, bring a large pot of water to a boil. Fill a large bowl two-thirds full with ice water. When the water comes to a boil, add the beans and cook for 1 minute, then drain and immediately submerge the beans in the ice water. Peel the beans by gently tearing the pale skins and pinching at one end. Discard the skins, reserving the dark green interiors. 

3. To cook the ragout: Heat a 12-inch nonreactive pan over medium heat. Add 1/4 cup olive oil and when hot, add the onion, oregano (if using) and guanciale. Cook, stirring occasionally until the onion and guanciale are translucent, about 10 minutes. Drain artichokes and add to the pan, along with 2 cups water and 11/4 teaspoons salt. Bring the liquid to a boil, then reduce heat to a simmer and cook until artichokes are just tender, about 25 minutes. If using frozen favas, add them and cook for 2 minutes. If using fresh favas or frozen edamame, add them, along with the peas, and cook until warm and tender, about 5 minutes more. Remove the oregano sprig. Sprinkle in parsley and mint. Season with lemon juice, freshly ground black pepper and, if desired, additional salt. Drizzle with extra-virgin olive oil and serve. 

START RECIPE
squash and chickpea moroccan stew 
JANUARY 7, 2009 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
Our first night in Paris in October, we had dinner at a great, inexpensive Moroccan restaurant in the 3ème called Chez Omar. The specialty is couscous, and the various stews you ladle over it. Alex had the chicken, I had the vegetables, but I hear we really missed out on the Royal, which is a big mess of meat. Served family style, the food was unpretentious, light and so healthy, I made a mental bookmark to try my hand at it when I got home.


chickpea squash stew mise 

Which, being me, I promptly forgot about. What jogged my memory was a version of a Moroccan vegetable stew on  Aida on the Food Network last week. I think that Moroccan cooking can be intimidating: I don’t have a 1 3/4-Quart Le Crueset Cast Iron Moroccan Tagine in Caribbean Blue for the low price of $200, nor do I have one I picked up for $2.95 at the central souk in Marrakesh in 1968. (Okay, I wasn’t even alive in 1968 but for some reason, everyone but me seems to have a story about something fabulous they bought there when backpacking across the world and I am jealous.) I also don’t have a couscousier, yet astoundingly, I was able to pull off this squash and chickpea stew for dinner on Sunday, and it was delicious.

stew, simmering 

This is the kind of food that’s perfect for this time of year. The ingredients are fairly simple — and the harder-to-find ones, like saffron and preserved lemons are optional — the dish is incredibly healthy and it’s a nice healthy break from the heavier stews and soups that usually get us through the cold winters.

squash and chickpea stew 

One year ago: Goulash 
Two years ago: World Peace Cookies 

Squash and Chickpea Moroccan Stew 
Adapted from Aida Mollencamp 

So, about those preserved lemons: This isn’t the first Moroccan dish I’ve made, but I’ve always been on the fence about the inclusion of preserved lemons. What if I searched all over town for them and ended up dropping $10 on something I hated. Would I like salt-pickled lemons? This time, I took the plunge (found them at Garden of Eden, for you New Yorkers, gourmet/specialty shops for everyone else or you can try Elise’s homemade recipe) and well: I think they’re an acquired taste that I haven’t acquired yet, but hope to. Yet they were wonderfully fragrant in the dish and if you’re looking to try out something new, or if you’re already smitten with them, go for it.

To veganize this, replace the butter with additional olive oil, use vegetable broth and skip the yogurt. 

Serves 6 to 8 

1 tablespoon unsalted butter 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 medium yellow onion, small dice 
4 medium cloves garlic, thinly sliced 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 (3-inch) cinnamon stick 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 pound butternut squash, large dice 
3/4 pound red potatoes, large dice 
2 cups low-sodium chicken or vegetable broth 
2 cups cooked chickpeas, drained 
1 (14-ounce) can diced tomatoes, with juices 
Pinch saffron threads (optional) 
1/2 preserved lemon, finely chopped 
1 cup brined green olives (Aida recommended Cerignola) 
Steamed couscous, for serving (directions here and elsewhere on the web) 
Fresh cilantro leaves, roughly chopped, for garnish 
Toasted slivered almonds, for garnish 
Plain yogurt, for garnish 
Hot sauce of your choice (for serving) 

Heat butter and olive oil in a 3- to 4-quart Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed saucepan with a tight fitting lid over medium heat. When oil shimmers, add onion, garlic, cumin, and cinnamon, and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until spices are aromatic and onions are soft and translucent, about 5 minutes. 

Add squash and potatoes, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper, stir to coat, and cook until just tender, about 3 minutes. Add broth, chickpeas, tomatoes and their juices, and saffron, if using. Bring mixture to a boil then reduce heat to low. Cover and simmer until squash is fork tender, about 10 minutes. 

Remove from heat and stir in preserved lemon and olives. Serve over couscous garnished with cilantro, almonds, and yogurt. 

START RECIPE
stewed lentils and tomatoes 
OCTOBER 30, 2006 JUMP TO COMMENTS 
My husband and I really don’t bicker much. I mean, sure, there’s the whole “tone” thing which often gets misheard in a “you’re being snippy” or “no, you’re being snippy” or “well, you were snippy first” sort of way, but mostly, mostly there’s been just one argument of late and it goes exactly like this: 


“But you’ve never even been to Forest Hills! How can you say that you could never live there?” 

So Sunday, I did my part for marital harmony. We wandered about this corner of Queens where my husband once lived and where the two-bedrooms are slightly more affordable, and yes, I will agree that especially in that tudor part, this neighborhood is the absolute height of lovely. Fortunately, we do not intend to make any moving decisions any time soon, but that doesn’t mean that nothing good came of this excursion. You see, I bought not one but two (!) new cookbooks, completely blowing my less-than-one-per-year average out of the water. 

How does someone who cooks as much as I do own so few cookbooks? Well, I stick to the basic, larger volumes and rely on my beloved magazines, food sites and your blogs for the rest. But, when I fished back through my rainbow-bookmarked Gourmet on Sunday morning to pick a recipe for dinner, upon reconsideration, few were as exciting as they’d seemed when I first opened it. The root vegetable gratin had about two cups of cream, and the brussels with wild mushrooms and shallots, on top of a deep-frying step, had nearly a stick of butter. Mon dieu! The hips! I mean, I’m not exactly fearful of butter or olive oil, but I eat something that involves any part of almost two cups of fat, it’s not going to be brussels and turnips, okay? 

lowered ladder 

Which leads me to the need for some fresh sources: I’ve had the first America’s Test Kitchen cookbook on my Amazon wish list for so many years, it’s growing roots, and the other, well, I’ve tried again and again to get past my fixation with Ina Garten’s cooking, and let’s just say the with the purchase of her most recent book, it’s not looking likely that this will abate very soon. The entire subway ride home, we thumbed through the glossy, picture-book pages, both landing fixated on the stewed lentils with tomatoes. After a quick trip to the grocery store – oh beloved grocery stores, just two blocks from home! – we were set, and less than an hour later, the most delightful smell wafted through our small and not-tudored apartment. This recipe is an undeniable hit: thick, hearty, healthy, unboring and perfect for the first of many cold and frightfully windy days to come. An outing, two cookbooks, a belly full of stew, a glass of Bordeaux, an episode of the Wire and fingers crossed for no housing angst on the  horizon, I’d say it was not bad at all for a Sunday. 

stewed lentils and tomatoes 

Stewed Lentils & Tomatoes 
Adapted from Barefoot Contessa at Home 

2 teaspoons good olive oil  
2 cups large-diced yellow onions (2 onions)
2 cups large-diced carrots (3 to 4 carrots) 
1 tablespoon minced garlic (3 cloves) 
1 (28-ounce) can whole plum tomatoes 
1 cup French green lentils (7 ounces) 
2 cups vegetable or chicken broth 
2 teaspoons mild curry powder 
2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme leaves 
2 teaspoons kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 

Heat the oil in a large saucepan. Add the onions and the carrots and cook over medium-low heat for 8 to 10 minutes, until the onions start to brown. Stir occasionally with a wooden spoon. Add the garlic and cook for one minute more. 

Meanwhile, place the canned plum tomatoes, including the juice, in the bowl of a food processor fitted with a steel blade and pulse several times until the tomatoes are coarsely chopped. Rinse and pick over the lentils to make sure there are no stones in the package. 

Add the tomatoes, lentils, broth, curry powder, thyme, salt and pepper to the pan. Raise the heat to bring to a boil, then lower the heat and simmer covered for about 40 minutes, until the lentils are tender. Check occasionally to be sure the liquid is still simmering. Remove from the heat and allow the lentils to sit covered for another 10 minutes. Add the vinegar, season to taste and serve hot. 


START RECIPE

Pickled black-eyed peas 
BY LISA FAIN 
DEC 28, 2017 
Pickled black-eyed peas | Homesick Texan 
When Helen Corbitt, the famed Texan chef, arrived in Texas from New York in 1931, she was presented with the state’s love for black-eyed peas, a field pea that is small, beige, and adorned with a black dot in the center, hence its name. As she was ted with creating menus for Texans, naturally this favorite would need to appear but there was one problem—she couldn’t stand the taste of the little legumes. Helen Corbitt hated black-eyed peas. 

Now, Corbitt was known for her fanciful cooking, and as she worked her way through the dining rooms of the state’s country clubs, universities, hotels, and high-end department stores, she delighted her guests with dishes such as creamy cheese soup, poppy seed dressing, and cakes baked in miniature flower pots. Her table was beautiful and people flocked to enjoy her food. 

But back to those pesky peas. Because they were abundant in Texas and many considered them not only a mealtime staple but also a necessary food on New Year’s Day to ensure good fortune, she knew it was important for her to serve them but she wasn’t pleased with the proposition. For some reason, the traditional pot loaded with pork just didn’t appeal to her. After trial and error, however, she decided to take cooked black-eyed peas and marinate them in oil, vinegar, garlic, and onion. This produced a tangy, snappy dish that had her trademark elegance in both look and taste. They were an instant hit. 

Pickled black-eyed peas | Homesick Texan 
At first she called her creation pickled black-eyed peas, but they were soon known as Texas caviar (though this term did not originate with her as it had been used earlier for stewed black-eyed peas). Neiman Marcus, where she began working in 1955, placed the pickled peas in jars and sold them in its stores. 

Here’s the interesting thing: Texas caviar is now a classic but the dish that most of us enjoy today differs from the Corbitt original. Instead, in today’s version the peas are usually mixed with peppers, tomatoes, and cilantro, making it more of a black-eyed pea salsa rather than a refined garnish or salad. In doing research, it appears that this transition started in the 1970s and while Corbitt’s name often comes up in discussion of this Tex-Mex rendition, I’m not sure she had anything to do with it, since the recipe published in her cookbooks and in newspaper profiles about her was always the minimal, pickled recipe described above. 

As I thought about something to make for the New Year, I ed my community on social media for ideas and was presented with many good ones. But when my friend Stephanie suggested pickled, I instantly thought of Texas caviar and began to do some research. To be honest, I assumed it was Corbitt who created the Tex-Mex version we commonly enjoy today, so I was surprised to see her original take. Curious what it was like, I knew that I had to make it. 

Corbitt takes cooked peas and packs them into jars with oil, vinegar, onion, and garlic, and lets them marinate for a day or so, though I discovered they were delicious even after a few hours if one wanted to speed up the process. While hers grab their flavor from the onion and garlic, for mine I also included a jalapeño for a hit of heat. To serve, they make a good side dish though some articles with her recipe suggested serving them with tortilla chips, which is excellent, too, especially if you add the pepper. It also works well on tacos or in queso. 

Pickled black-eyed peas | Homesick Texan 
Corbitt wrote about her creation and New Year’s Day: “A good Texan eats [black-eyed peas] some time during the day to insure prosperity for the coming year—whether he likes them or not. I came to Texas wide-eyed and innocent about such shenanigans—I didn’t like the peas either. So-o-o I pickled them.” 

And like all fans of this bright and lively black-eyed pea dish, I’m glad that she did. 

Happy New Year! 

Print 
Pickled black-eyed peas 
Servings 8 
Author Adapted by Lisa Fain from a Helen Corbitt recipe 
Ingredients 
1 pound dried black-eyed peas or 2 (15-ounce) cans black-eyed peas, drained and rinsed 
Kosher salt 
½ medium red onion, cut into thin slivers 
2 cloves garlic, smashed 
1 jalapeño, cut into rings (optional) 
1/2 to ¾ cup canola or olive oil (see note) 
¼ cup red wine vinegar 
¼ teaspoon black pepper 
Instructions 
If starting with dried black-eyed peas, place the peas and about 1 tablespoon salt in a large pot, cover with 2 inches of water, and either soak overnight or for a quick soak, bring to a boil, then turn off the heat and cover the pot for 1 hour. 


After the peas have soaked, bring to a boil then turn the heat down to low and simmer covered for 30 minutes. Remove the lid, then continue to simmer until tender, about 1 hour. Drain the peas. (If using canned black-eyed peas, you can skip these steps.) 


Place the cooked peas in a bowl and stir in the onion, garlic, and jalapeño. Whisk together the oil and vinegar until well blended then pour the dressing over the peas and stir until well combined. Add the pepper than add salt to taste, about ½ teaspoon. 


Chill in the refrigerator covered for at least 4 hours before serving, though they will get even more tangy and flavorful the longer they sit. The pickled black-eyed peas will last for a week in the refrigerator. Corbitt recommended serving them with a plate and fork, though they can be served as a garnish or a dip, too. 


Recipe Notes 
The original recipe called for 1 cup of salad oil. I used olive oil, as that's what I use in my salads and I prefer the flavor, but it does solidify in the refrigerator. Another reader uses canola, which will stay more fluid, so you may prefer to that instead. Also, I cut the amount down to 3/4 cup but a couple of people have said they think that's still a bit much, so you may want to use 1/2 cup instead. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSDIP • SALAD 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

33 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Felix queso 
BY LISA FAIN 
OCT 27, 2017 
Felix queso | Homesick Texan 
So, first things first. I never had the famed Felix queso at its original home, a Southeast Texas regional chain of restaurants owned and operated by the late Tex-Mex pioneer Felix Tijerina that first opened in 1937. I’m not sure why my family never ate there but perhaps it’s because we’re Dallas transplants, and the people who are mad about Felix were usually born and bred in the Houston area. 

That said, for years I’ve heard nothing but both praise and derision for this queso. The latter is due mainly to its peculiar appearance (some poorly lit photos make it look like unappealingly oily and inedible), while the former is due to its unique flavor and texture. And for those that love Felix queso, they really, really, really love it. It is so adored, in fact, that when the last standing Felix restaurant on Westheimer closed in 2008, people placed gallon-sized orders of the queso to stockpile in their freezers. These fans couldn’t bear life without their beloved dip. 


Fortunately, another Houston restaurant named El Patio bought the rights to the Felix recipes and you can now get many of the old favorites there, such as the cheese enchiladas, the crispy tacos, and of course, said queso. Since no book about queso would be complete without a recipe for this Houston icon, last year when I was doing my queso tour across Texas while doing my research, I made a stop there one afternoon. I was thrilled to finally eat Felix queso at last. 

When I got to the the restaurant it was around three in the afternoon, which is in-between meals so the room was quiet. I sat down and the waitress brought me a menu but without looking at it I told her that I was there for the Felix queso. She beamed and said, “Such a favorite!” I admitted to her that I’d never had it and was a bit dubious because of its bizarre appearance, but she shook her head and said it was excellent and that she ate it all the time. I placed my order then snacked on the crisp, salty chips and refreshing tomato salsa as I waited. 

A few minutes later, she brought me my queso and it was indeed as odd looking in person as it was in photos. Perhaps not as ugly as some of the images I had seen, but it sat solid in the bowl like a whipped putty with a moat of red oil beginning to form on the queso’s outer edges. I grabbed a chip and made the first dip. 

Felix queso | Homesick Texan 
By the heft of the queso, I had assumed it would be hard to dip into, but the queso was yielding and my chip easily slid into the bowl. I took my chip, now loaded with cheese, and took a bite. Now, I’m not sure what I was expecting, but the queso was rich with the earthy notes of ancho chile, cumin, and paprika, and there was a hint sweetness from tomatoes and onions, too. It was the flavor profile of classic Tex-Mex. As for the texture, it was surprisingly fluffy and while it was certainly thick it wasn’t heavy but instead pillow soft. To be honest, Felix queso is kind of hard to describe but I happily kept eating it and now understood why it was so beloved. There is no other queso quite like it. 

After taking notes, when I returned home I attempted to make my own batch. After trying several recipes that have appeared over the years in various Houston publications that were all different, and after reading an interview with Felix’s wife where she revealed that ancho chile played a key role, I came up with my own amalgamation, which not only appears in my book but I’m also sharing with you today. 

Purists may scoff that it’s not entirely accurate, but the slick of chile-spiced oil pooled on a thick bed of melted cheese is present and deliciously unique. And if you never had a chance to visit Felix when it was open or don’t have plans to be in Houston soon to go to El Patio, I suggest trying this unique queso. It’s not only a Tex-Mex classic and a piece of Texas culinary history, but it’s also just fun to eat. 


The process to make the queso is a bit unusual, since after you cook down the tomatoes and aromatics with the spices you then stir in a paste made from water and flour. It’s not a classic roux, but this paste does give the queso its distinct texture. There’s a lot of stirring involved, but it does go quickly and once you scoop the queso into a bowl and pass the tortilla chips, I imagine that the queso will disappear quickly, too. Felix queso may be curious but it’s also wonderful. And while I’m late to the party, I’m so glad that I finally arrived. 

Print 
Felix queso 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1 ⁄4 cup vegetable oil 
1 ⁄4 cup diced yellow onion 
3 ⁄4 cup diced grape tomatoes 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon chili powder 
1 teaspoon paprika 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne 
1 ⁄4 cup all-purpose flour 
1 ⁄4 cup water 
8 ounces yellow American cheese, shredded 
Tortilla chips, for serving 
Instructions 
In a medium saucepan, warm the oil over low heat. Add the onion, tomatoes, garlic, chili powder, paprika, salt, and cayenne and cook, stirring occasionally, until the tomatoes have almost completely disintegrated, 6 to 8 minutes. 


Whisk together the flour and the water to make a paste, then addit to the pan. Stir a few times until the paste is well combined with the vegetables. Stirring constantly, add the cheese, which should combine quickly. As the cheese melts, the queso will become thick and almost like putty. Don’t be alarmed! This is the proper texture as it is not a creamy queso. Taste and adjust the seasonings, if you like. 


Transfer the queso to a serving bowl, a small slow cooker, or a chafing dish over a flame. Serve immediately with tortilla chips. 


Recipe Notes 
One of the characteristics of this queso is that the oil separates from the cheese. The amounts of oil used in the various recipes were all over the place but I found ¼ cup provided enough without it being overly greasy. Though if you like it super greasy feel free to add 2 tablespoons more oil. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSANCHO • CHEESE • DIP • QUESO 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

28 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 
 
 
Your email here 
 
SUBSCRIBE 
 
BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 





START RECIPE

Chili parlor queso 
BY LISA FAIN 
OCT 4, 2017 
When I started researching the history of chile con queso for my new book, periodicals and books revealed it had been a popular dish at the Johnson White House in the 1960s. That made sense, as President Johnson and his wife Lady Bird were both Texans who knew queso was a must at any gathering. 

Most guests were receptive to the dish, but the White House’s French head chef René Verdon hated it. In fact, he loathed chile con queso so much that he derisively referred to it as “chile con-crete.” When I first heard what he said, I laughed as I could imagine a person with a French accent and a sneer looking at a slow cooker burbling with queso and uttering that phrase. But the more I thought about it, the more I decided that clearly the chef had not tasted the queso because if he had I know he would have changed his mind. 

Indeed, when I first moved to New York and would make queso for my friends, the Texans would of course make a beeline to the pot but the non-Texans would make faces and say, “What’s that?” When I’d explain to them what it was and how it was made, they’d be even more snobby about the dish. But I always encouraged them to take one bite. And after they dipped that first tortilla chip into the pot they’d marvel over how creamy and delicious queso can be. 

Chili parlor queso | Homesick Texan 

The Johnson family was proud of their state’s culinary heritage and Mrs. Johnson often shared with the press the recipes that came from the kitchen of the family’s personal chef, Zephyr Wright. Most were classics that would look familiar to any Texan, but strangely enough, the first queso recipe she gave called for aged cheddar.  

At this time, queso was made with a processed cheese base, and I assume that’s what they served at the White House, too. Though when I made the first-published Johnson queso recipe it turned into a lumpen mess, as there were no starches or a roux to bind the sauce, which you need when melting real cheese. I reckoned that the usage of cheddar over the more common processed cheese was an attempt to mollify her in-house critic. 

Chili parlor queso | Homesick Texan 

Another recipe she shared a few years later, however, did call for melting brick processed cheese (usually sold under the name Velveeta) and canned tomatoes and green chiles (usually sold under the name Ro-Tel). A queso classic. To make it even better, a generous portion of Texas red chili—that beloved stew of beef and red chile peppers—was also added to the creamy base. As chili is the state dish of Texas and some may argue that queso is a close runner-up, this dip was a much better introduction to Texas party fare than the previous recipe Mrs. Johnson had shared. This was the real deal. 

For my book, I took that recipe and adapted it a bit. The chili in the original was the famous Johnson recipe for Pedernales chili, which has a ground-beef base and is seasoned with chili powder. For expediency, I stuck with the ground beef, but to get a richer ancho chile flavor, I made a puree out of whole chiles versus ground powder. And while I typically eschew tomatoes in my chili, for authenticity to the original I did retain the ones called for but split the can between the chili and the queso, which worked out well. 



People have ed me what is my favorite recipe from the book, and I always reply that I don’t have one. This is true, as there are so many variations of chile con queso that there is always something new to discover. I love them all. But I’m sharing this one with you today mainly because October to me is perfect chili weather. And what goes better with chili than queso? This is fall Texan comfort in a bowl served with a side of chips. 

Now, a few more words about QUESO! The past week has been fantastic and I wanted to thank y’all for all the kind things you’ve said about the book. It’s been super fun seeing people’s photos on social media of the dishes they’ve made. Please continue to share! Also, if you’ve enjoyed the book please consider leaving a review on Amazon, GoodReads, your blog, or other review sites. This is also very helpful! I am going to be having book events in Texas in early November, and I’d love to see you! Here are the dates with details. Thank you again, and I’m so grateful for all your support and kind words. Queso forever! 

 Print 
Chili parlor queso 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the chili: 
2 ounces dried ancho chiles 
1 teaspoon bacon grease or vegetable oil 
1⁄4 medium yellow onion, chopped 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
1⁄2 (10-ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chiles, with juices 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
Pinch ground allspice Pinch of cayenne 
Pinch cayenne 
1 1⁄2 cups water 
1 pound ground beef, preferably coarsely ground 
1⁄2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1⁄2 teaspoon black pepper 
Ingredients for the queso: 
1 pound brick processed cheese, cubed 
1⁄2 (10-ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chiles, with juices 
1⁄4 cup pickled jalapeños 
1⁄4 cup diced yellow onion, for serving 
Tortilla chips, for serving 
Instructions 
In a dry skillet heated on high, toast the ancho chiles on each side for about 10 seconds or just until they start to puff. Fill the skillet with enough water to cover. Leave the heat on until the water begins to boil and then turn off the heat and let the chiles soak until soft, about 30 minutes. Once hydrated, discard the soaking water, rinse the chiles well, then place into a blender. 


To make the chili, in a medium saucepan, warm the bacon grease over medium-low heat. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for 30 seconds longer. Turn off the heat. Transfer the onion and garlic to a blender with the chiles. Add the tomatoes, oregano, cumin, allspice, cayenne, and water. Blend until smooth. 


Add the ground beef to the pan and season it with the salt and black pepper. Cook over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally, until browned, about 10 minutes. Pour in the chile puree. Turn the heat to high, bring the mixture to a boil, then turn down the heat and simmer, uncovered, for 30 to 45 minutes, stirring occasionally, until thickened and fragrant. If the chili gets too dry, add more water. Taste and adjust the seasonings, if you like. 


To make the queso, in another medium saucepan, combine the cheese and tomatoes. Cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, until the cheese has melted. 


Transfer the queso to a serving bowl, a slow cooker, or a chafing dish over a flame. Spoon the chili into the center of the queso and top with the pickled jalapeños and onion. Serve warm with tortilla chips. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBEEF • CHEESE • CHILI • QUESO 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

25 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 





START RECIPE

Chili parlor queso 
BY LISA FAIN 
OCT 4, 2017 
When I started researching the history of chile con queso for my new book, periodicals and books revealed it had been a popular dish at the Johnson White House in the 1960s. That made sense, as President Johnson and his wife Lady Bird were both Texans who knew queso was a must at any gathering. 

Most guests were receptive to the dish, but the White House’s French head chef René Verdon hated it. In fact, he loathed chile con queso so much that he derisively referred to it as “chile con-crete.” When I first heard what he said, I laughed as I could imagine a person with a French accent and a sneer looking at a slow cooker burbling with queso and uttering that phrase. But the more I thought about it, the more I decided that clearly the chef had not tasted the queso because if he had I know he would have changed his mind. 

Indeed, when I first moved to New York and would make queso for my friends, the Texans would of course make a beeline to the pot but the non-Texans would make faces and say, “What’s that?” When I’d explain to them what it was and how it was made, they’d be even more snobby about the dish. But I always encouraged them to take one bite. And after they dipped that first tortilla chip into the pot they’d marvel over how creamy and delicious queso can be. 

Chili parlor queso | Homesick Texan 

The Johnson family was proud of their state’s culinary heritage and Mrs. Johnson often shared with the press the recipes that came from the kitchen of the family’s personal chef, Zephyr Wright. Most were classics that would look familiar to any Texan, but strangely enough, the first queso recipe she gave called for aged cheddar.  

At this time, queso was made with a processed cheese base, and I assume that’s what they served at the White House, too. Though when I made the first-published Johnson queso recipe it turned into a lumpen mess, as there were no starches or a roux to bind the sauce, which you need when melting real cheese. I reckoned that the usage of cheddar over the more common processed cheese was an attempt to mollify her in-house critic. 

Chili parlor queso | Homesick Texan 

Another recipe she shared a few years later, however, did call for melting brick processed cheese (usually sold under the name Velveeta) and canned tomatoes and green chiles (usually sold under the name Ro-Tel). A queso classic. To make it even better, a generous portion of Texas red chili—that beloved stew of beef and red chile peppers—was also added to the creamy base. As chili is the state dish of Texas and some may argue that queso is a close runner-up, this dip was a much better introduction to Texas party fare than the previous recipe Mrs. Johnson had shared. This was the real deal. 

For my book, I took that recipe and adapted it a bit. The chili in the original was the famous Johnson recipe for Pedernales chili, which has a ground-beef base and is seasoned with chili powder. For expediency, I stuck with the ground beef, but to get a richer ancho chile flavor, I made a puree out of whole chiles versus ground powder. And while I typically eschew tomatoes in my chili, for authenticity to the original I did retain the ones called for but split the can between the chili and the queso, which worked out well. 



People have ed me what is my favorite recipe from the book, and I always reply that I don’t have one. This is true, as there are so many variations of chile con queso that there is always something new to discover. I love them all. But I’m sharing this one with you today mainly because October to me is perfect chili weather. And what goes better with chili than queso? This is fall Texan comfort in a bowl served with a side of chips. 

Now, a few more words about QUESO! The past week has been fantastic and I wanted to thank y’all for all the kind things you’ve said about the book. It’s been super fun seeing people’s photos on social media of the dishes they’ve made. Please continue to share! Also, if you’ve enjoyed the book please consider leaving a review on Amazon, GoodReads, your blog, or other review sites. This is also very helpful! I am going to be having book events in Texas in early November, and I’d love to see you! Here are the dates with details. Thank you again, and I’m so grateful for all your support and kind words. Queso forever! 

 Print 
Chili parlor queso 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the chili: 
2 ounces dried ancho chiles 
1 teaspoon bacon grease or vegetable oil 
1⁄4 medium yellow onion, chopped 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
1⁄2 (10-ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chiles, with juices 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
Pinch ground allspice Pinch of cayenne 
Pinch cayenne 
1 1⁄2 cups water 
1 pound ground beef, preferably coarsely ground 
1⁄2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1⁄2 teaspoon black pepper 
Ingredients for the queso: 
1 pound brick processed cheese, cubed 
1⁄2 (10-ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chiles, with juices 
1⁄4 cup pickled jalapeños 
1⁄4 cup diced yellow onion, for serving 
Tortilla chips, for serving 
Instructions 
In a dry skillet heated on high, toast the ancho chiles on each side for about 10 seconds or just until they start to puff. Fill the skillet with enough water to cover. Leave the heat on until the water begins to boil and then turn off the heat and let the chiles soak until soft, about 30 minutes. Once hydrated, discard the soaking water, rinse the chiles well, then place into a blender. 


To make the chili, in a medium saucepan, warm the bacon grease over medium-low heat. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for 30 seconds longer. Turn off the heat. Transfer the onion and garlic to a blender with the chiles. Add the tomatoes, oregano, cumin, allspice, cayenne, and water. Blend until smooth. 


Add the ground beef to the pan and season it with the salt and black pepper. Cook over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally, until browned, about 10 minutes. Pour in the chile puree. Turn the heat to high, bring the mixture to a boil, then turn down the heat and simmer, uncovered, for 30 to 45 minutes, stirring occasionally, until thickened and fragrant. If the chili gets too dry, add more water. Taste and adjust the seasonings, if you like. 


To make the queso, in another medium saucepan, combine the cheese and tomatoes. Cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, until the cheese has melted. 


Transfer the queso to a serving bowl, a slow cooker, or a chafing dish over a flame. Spoon the chili into the center of the queso and top with the pickled jalapeños and onion. Serve warm with tortilla chips. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBEEF • CHEESE • CHILI • QUESO 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

25 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Green chile creamy avocado salsa 
BY LISA FAIN 
AUG 17, 2017 
Green chile creamy avocado salsa | Homesick Texan 
The first time I had the creamy green salsa found on many Houston Tex-Mex tables, it was an eye-opener. It was cool, creamy, and bright with just a hint of spice. I was in love and it became my favorite thing about the whole dining-out experience in Houston. 

Mama Ninfa Laurenzo of Ninfa’s fame was the one who popularized this style, as she was among the first to make this salsa a common accompaniment to chips along with the usual red. Her recipe has been published many places, and in the early days of this site I ran the one that had been in the Houston Chronicle. 

Now, her version calls for sour cream, though along the border and in Mexico, Mexican crema would be more common. For years, I made it this way and was pleased. A few years ago, however, I came across an avocado salsa that had all the tang and spice of hers, yet it was dairy free. I published a recipe for this in my first cookbook, and while sometimes I go back to the sour cream version, more and more I prefer to make it without. 

Green chile creamy avocado salsa | Homesick Texan 

This style of creamy avocado salsa is a popular condiment to tacos, flautas, and steak in Northern Mexico and along the border. A healthy handful of tomatillos is mixed with avocado, cilantro, garlic, and chiles to form a silky blend. This allows the avocado to go further than it would in guacamole, which makes for a cost effective yet tasty sauce.  

You see it all over the Rio Grande Valley, where Laurenzo was from, so it makes sense that she would offer it at her restaurants. The sour cream was probably added to make the ingredients stretch further, but even without sour cream it’s still smooth, and if you’re working on a small scale, not using it makes for a more intensely flavored dish. 

The chiles in creamy avocado salsa are usually small piquant ones such as serrano or jalapeños. But since chiles are now in season and long green chiles, which are found under the name Hatch, Anaheim, or New Mexican, are available in abundance I thought it would be fun to try it with those instead. 
 
Typically, you boil the tomatillos, but since I was roasting my long green chiles to remove the tough skin, I added my tomatillos to my skillet, as well. After the tomatillos were darkened and the chiles had been peeled, I then pureed them in a blender along with an avocado, garlic, lime juice, and a healthy handful of cilantro. 

Green chile creamy avocado salsa | Homesick Texan 

The result was creamy and good, with an added depth from the roasting of the chiles and tomatillos. While I had been concerned that the blackened skins from the tomatillos might affect the salsa’s color, it turned out as vibrant and green as always. While it wasn’t as fiery as it would be if made with serranos, my long green chiles were hot enough to make this batch plenty sharp. Most importantly, however, is that this green chile creamy avocado salsa is still a much beloved and familiar friend. 

 Print 
Green chile creamy avocado salsa 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
2 long green chiles such as Hatch or Anaheim 
1/2 pound tomatillos, husked 
1 avocado, peeled, pitted, and cut in half 
2-3 cloves garlic 
1/2 cup cilantro leaves 
1 teaspoon lime juice 
¼ cup water 
Salt 
Instructions 
Roast the chiles and tomatillos under the broiler until blackened on both sides, about 10-12 minutes, turning once. Once blackened, place the chiles in a paper sack or plastic food-storage bag, close it tight and let the chiles steam for 20 minutes. Place the tomatillos in a blender. 


After the chiles have steamed, remove from the bag and rub off the skin. Remove the stems and seeds from both the chiles and add to the blender. 


Add the avocado, garlic, cilantro, lime juice, and water to the blender. Puree until smooth, then add salt to taste (I usually start with 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt). If too thick, feel free to thin it with more water. 


Will keep in the refrigerator for 3 days. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSAVOCADO • CHILES • SALSA • TOMATILLOS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

17 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

South Padre shrimp ceviche 
BY LISA FAIN 
AUG 3, 2017 
South Padre shrimp ceviche | Homesick Texan 
This time last summer, I found myself on South Padre Island. I was thick into a queso road trip and as such had been eating multiple bowls of molten cheese from morning until night. While that experience was indeed glorious, after a couple of weeks I needed something more light and acidic. A restaurant on the island called Ceviche, Ceviche provided just what I craved. 

This take-out spot, not far from the ocean, had been highly recommended to me as a fine place to get fish and shrimp mixed with fruits and vegetables such as tomatoes, cantaloupe, jicama, and avocado. The set up was much like Chipotle, in that you choose your protein base and then let the person behind the counter add in whatever other ingredients strike your fancy. 

South Padre shrimp ceviche | Homesick Texan 

That day, I was feeling traditional and so I went with Gulf shrimp, which was in season, along with a classic blend of tomatoes, garlic, onions, jalapeños, and avocado. A generous splash of lime juice brought it all together and gave it additional life. When it was done, I took my ceviche, walked past the grassy dunes, sat on the sand, and ed the water crest and fall as I ate. It was a perfect lunch. 

Ceviche is originally from Peru but eventually made its way to Mexico and then Texas. There are countless combinations of ingredients, but the foundation of any ceviche is the same—seafood marinated in an acidic liquid mixed with other herbs, fruits, and vegetables. Firm and fresh white fish such as snapper, sea bass, and halibut are good options, but my favorite protein for ceviche is Gulf shrimp, which is what I’ve used here. 

South Padre shrimp ceviche | Homesick Texan 
This recipe, which is much like the one I had in South Padre, is perhaps the most popular variation you’ll find along the Texas coast. To eat the ceviche, I like to scoop it onto salty tortilla chips, though it can also be placed on tostadas or in tortillas. Some folks like to serve it on a bed of lettuce, too. Of course, there’s no right or wrong way to enjoy ceviche. You simply need a desire for something crisp and fresh that will remind you of lazy days savoring the sunshine, the waves, and the beach. 

 Print 
South Padre shrimp ceviche 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Kosher salt 
1 pound small shrimp, peeled and deveined 
1 cup freshly squeezed lime juice, from 4-8 limes, depending on how juicy they are 
3 ripe plum tomatoes, seeded and diced 
2 jalapeños, seeded and diced 
¼ cup diced red onion 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
¼ cup chopped cilantro 
½ teaspoon ground cumin 
½ teaspoon dried oregano 
1 avocado, peeled, pitted, and diced 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
Tortilla chips, for serving 
Lime wedges, for serving 
Instructions 
Bring a pot of water to a boil, stir in about a tablespoon of salt, add the shrimp, then cook for 1 minute. Drain the shrimp then rinse under cold water for a minute to prevent any further cooking. Chop the shrimp into ½-inch pieces, then place in a non-reactive container and cover with the lime juice. Refrigerate and marinate for 10 minutes. 


After this time, drain the shrimp from the juice, reserving the lime juice. In a serving bowl, mix the shrimp with the tomatoes, jalapeños, red onion, garlic, cilantro, cumin, oregano, olive oil, and avocado. Stir in the oil, then add some of the reserved lime juice. I start with 3 tablespoons of juice, then taste and adjust seasonings, adding salt to taste and more juice if needed. 


Serve immediately with tortilla chips and lime wedges. It can be eaten as a dip or on individual plates with utensils. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCOASTAL BEND • SALAD • SHRIMP • SOUTH TEXAS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

10 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Salsa verde ranch wings 
BY LISA FAIN 
AUG 4, 2016 
Salsa verde ranch wings | Homesick Texan 
Last weekend I was with some friends in Dripping Springs. While I’m often in charge of planning meals, this time my friends wanted to grill, and since I haven’t done that since I moved to New York I removed myself from this particular kitchen duty and instead focused on other things such as biscuits, salad, and cobbler. 

That said, even though I wasn’t in charge of the grilling, I was worried about the basting sauce that was being used on the chicken. “I think it has too much sugar,” I said. “The chicken might burn!” But one of my friends told me to just let it go and have faith that the meal would turn out all right. And it did. I had no need to worry. 

The reason, however, I was concerned was that I had made broiler wings the week before, and even though I marinated and basted the chicken in a salsa verde ranch dressing that had no sugar, I still needed to keep a close eye on them lest they get too dark. Though grilling and broiling are not the same and perhaps soon I can spend more time in a yard with a grill and learn more. 

Salsa verde ranch wings | Homesick Texan 

In any case, while we didn’t use this salsa verde ranch dressing on our chicken while we were in the Hill Country, it’s still a fine sauce that not only helps the meat stay juicy, but it also gives it a bright and spicy flavor.  

Making the dressing is simple. You first take jalapeños, tomatillos, and garlic, and lightly boil them in water for a few minutes until soft and fragrant, as if you’re making a salsa. Then you puree them with a handful of cilantro, and then mix this vibrant, piquant base with Greek yogurt and mayonnaise. Sour cream works, too. 

After tasting to adjust seasonings, try to refrain from eating the whole bowl with tortilla chips since you are now going to use it with the chicken. (Though be happy that you’ve made enough that you can dip your chicken wings into it, which is a far more Texan and superior experience for wings than blue cheese dressing, in my opinion.) 

After slipping the wings into the dressing to soak up some of its flavor, you then broil the wings, which keeps the oven on for only 20 minutes, a gift during hot days. It’s a simple method, though you do need to be attentive so that the wings don’t burn. Much like you would do if you were grilling. 

Salsa verde ranch wings | Homesick Texan 

After cooking, for a final burst of flavor I finish them off with a squirt of lime juice. There’s no frying involved and the most difficult action is making the sauce. And once the wings are cool enough to touch, you take one, dip it into more salsa verde ranch, and feel thankful that jalapeños and tomatillos are in season and for all that you have. Repeat until the wings are done. 

 Print 
Salsa verde ranch wings 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
2 jalapeños, cut in half lengthwise and seeded 
4 tomatillos, husked and cut in half 
2 cloves garlic, peeled 
1/2 cup cilantro 
1/2 cup Greek-style yogurt or sour cream 
1/4 cup mayonnaise 
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 
Pinch cayenne 
Salt 
Pepper 
3 pounds chicken wings, Buffalo cut 
Lime wedges, for serving 
Instructions 
To make the salsa verde ranch dressing, place the jalapeños, tomatillos, and garlic in a saucepan. Cover with water, bring to a boil and then simmer for 7-10 minutes or until the tomatillos have turned an army-green color and softened. 


With a slotted spoon, transfer the jalapeños, tomatillos, and garlic to a blender. Add the cilantro and blend until smooth. (If the tomatillos aren’t juicy enough, add 1 tablespoon of the cooking water.) 


With a rubber spatula scrape out the salsa verde puree into a bowl and add the yogurt, mayonnaise, cumin, and cayenne. Stir until well combined. Taste and adjust seasonings and add salt and pepper. You should have about 1 1/2 cups of salsa verde ranch dressing. 


Salt and pepper the wings then place into a food-safe storage container. Pour 1/4 cup of the salsa verde ranch over the wings (refrigerating the rest to use later), and then toss to coat evenly. Cover and marinate for 1 hour. 


To cook the wings, line a sheet pan with parchment paper or greased foil, and then place the wings in one layer on the sheet. Allow to come to room temperature, about 15 minutes, then turn on the broiler and place a rack 6 inches from the heating element. 


Take the rest of the salsa verde ranch out of the refrigerator and pour 2 tablespoons into a bowl for basting the wings, reserving the rest for serving with the wings. 


Cook the wings for 8-10 minutes or until one side is brown and crisp, and remove from the oven. Flip the wings to the other side, baste the wings with the 2 tablespoons of salsa verde ranch, and then return to the oven. Cook another 8-10 minutes or until brown and crisp. 


Remove from the oven and serve warm with lime wedges and the rest of the salsa verde ranch. 


Recipe Notes 
If you’re more inclined to grill your wings they would be delicious that way, too. As I said, I’m not an expert on this method, but I would reckon grilling them close together at about medium while turning occasionally would yield similar results. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBUTTERMILK • CHICKEN • JALAPENOS • SALSA • TOMATILLOS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

16 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAY 11, 2017 
Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits | Homesick Texan 
Around midnight, I heard a knock at my bedroom door. “Are the biscuits done?” ed my grandma. I told her the batch I had made after she went to bed were indeed ready to be reheated in the morning. When she didn’t reply, I got out of bed to see if she had heard me. I opened the door but she wasn’t there, so I went looking for her and found her in the kitchen pinching off a piece of biscuit from its storage container. She took a bite, smiled, and said, “I couldn’t wait until morning. These are oh, so good!” 

When I travel, I usually prefer other people to cook. But when it comes to biscuits, I am always happy to bake up a batch. Most folks will have on hand the necessary ingredients and they are not difficult to prepare. Making biscuits is a fun thing and the small amount of effort always yields much joy. 

Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits | Homesick Texan 

My basic biscuit recipe is my most popular, as it’s a fine vehicle for honey or homemade jam. But I also like to adapt with whatever I have on hand. This has led to jalapeño cheddar biscuits, sweet potato biscuits, and tomato, cheddar, and bacon biscuits. And that’s just the ones that I’ve shared here, as there are quite a few more variations that I’ve made. A biscuit, while superb on its own, is an excellent blank canvas.  

That night in Texas, I had made for my grandma a new biscuit variation, which I am calling bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits. Yes, the name is something of a mouthful, but my grandma is correct: they are oh, so good.  
They came about when I found myself with an abundance of bacon and sweet, Texas pecans that my mom had sent. Because I kept hearing about cinnamon rolls made with biscuit dough instead of the usual yeast dough, combining the bacon, pecans, and cinnamon into one decadent pastry just felt right. 

BACON PECAN CINNAMON ROLL BISCUITS | Homesick Texan 
Would you like to try them? Here’s how. First you make a basic biscuit dough, then you fry up some bacon and crumble it. After you have your dough you roll it out, spread butter, sugar, cinnamon, pecans, and the bacon generously throughout the center. Then you roll it up, slice it into rolls and bake. You are now 15 minutes or so away from the easiest, quickest cinnamon rolls you’ve ever had. 

Are they as good as yeast-based cinnamon rolls? I think so, though I admit that they are a bit different, as biscuit dough is more rich and flaky than a risen roll, though these are not bad attributes at all. There is so much butter and sugar these are quite tender and delicious on their own. But since icing is a must for cinnamon rolls, I top these with a layer of sweet, creamy frosting spiked with more cinnamon. 

Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits | Homesick Texan 

If you’re the sort to have leftovers (though I doubt you will) these keep in the refrigerator for a day or so. You can heat them up but I’ve found they’re not bad cold. And if you make them for loved ones you’re visiting, be aware they might not be able to wait until morning, as they are oh, so good. 

 Print 
Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits 
Servings 12 rolls 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
For the biscuits: 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
½ teaspoon kosher salt 
8 tablespoons unsalted butter 
¾ cup half and half 
For the filling: 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
6 ounces bacon, cooked and crumbled 
½ cup chopped pecans 
For the frosting: 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, room temperature 
1 tablespoon whole milk 
1 cup powdered sugar 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon 
Pinch salt 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 450° F and lightly grease a baking sheet or a 10-inch cast iron skillet. 


To make the biscuits, stir together the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Cut the stick of butter into pieces, and work into the flour mixture with your hands or a pastry blender until it resembles pea-sized crumbs. Add the half and half, stirring until it’s loose and sticky. 


Place the dough on a lightly-floured surface and knead it for a few seconds until it comes together. Roll the dough out into a large rectangle, about 13×9 inches, with the long side facing you. (Make sure you can lift the dough. If it’s sticking, add more flour underneath.) For the filling, spread the softened butter onto the dough, leaving a ½-inch border around the edges. Stir together the sugar and cinnamon then evenly sprinkle over the butter. Top the cinnamon-sugar with the crumbled bacon and pecans. 


Starting on one of the long sides, roll the dough and pinch ends to seal. Cut off 12 1-inch slices from the rolled dough, and place the sliced rolls close together into the baking dish. Bake uncovered for 15-17 minutes or until lightly browned. 


To make the frosting, stir together the powdered sugar, butter, milk, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt. Spread onto rolls when they come out of oven. Serve warm. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBACON • BISCUITS • PECANS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

12 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Oatmeal Dutch baby pancake with chocolate chips and pecans 
BY LISA FAIN 
FEB 23, 2017 
Oatmeal Dutch baby pancake with chocolate chips and pecans | Homesick Texan 
The other day I pulled out my copy of “Talk About Good,” the Junior League of Lafayette’s cookbook. Because of Mardi Gras, this time of year I often feel an urge to eat Cajun cuisine and this collection has a host of excellent recipes from local home cooks. Though as I was flipping through the book, instead of a gumbo or an étouffée catching my eye, it was an entry for oatmeal pancakes that made me want to cook. 
 
Now, oatmeal pancakes aren’t unique to Louisiana, as I’ve had them in Texas and in other places across the country. But nevertheless, I was drawn to this recipe, which in hindsight wasn’t that much of a surprise. See, during these final days leading up to Lent, I may think of myself as a m-wearing, street-dancing Carnival gal. But because of how I was raised, at heart I’m more of a Shrove Tuesday, parish hall, pancake person instead. 
 
Oatmeal Dutch baby pancake with chocolate chips and pecans | Homesick Texan 
 
While preferring a pancake supper to a lively party on the day before Lent isn’t a bad thing, it can be a bit boring. That said, pancakes can be also be fun—you just need to approach them with a bit of creativity. For instance, in the past I’ve made banana, bacon, and pecan pancakes, which were sweet, smoky and very exciting. Then there is my apple green chile Dutch baby, which is a skillet pancake that’s quick and good, especially if you want to spend more time visiting with people then cooking. 

Even though I’ve made lots of different pancakes in my time, one that I’ve wanted to make but never have is is an oatmeal pancake loaded with pecans and chocolate chips. In my mind, it would encompass all the sweet and salty chunky attributes of a cowboy cookie, but in pancake form. So, when I saw the oatmeal pancake recipe, it was time to put my idea into action. 

After making the basic oatmeal batter, I stirred in some chocolate and nuts and began to cook using the traditional, stand-at the stove method. The flavor was fine, but after a couple of not-so-attractive rounds I realized I had been spoiled by the ease of a Dutch baby and no longer had much patience for flipping pancakes. It was time to changed course make my chocolate chip oatmeal pancake an oven-baked Dutch baby instead. 

A Dutch baby is similar to a popover or Yorkshire pudding, which means the ratio of eggs to flour is higher than in a regular pancake batter. It’s the eggs that make it rise and then settle into a tender, rich pastry that’s lightly crisp at the edges. So, after adding more eggs to my mix and reducing the amount of flour and oatmeal, I whirred the ingredients in the blender, which made for a quick preparation. Before baking, I heated butter in a skillet, added chopped pecans along with orange juice for brightness. Then I poured in the batter, threw in a generous helping of chocolate chips, slid the skillet into the oven, and walked away. No standing at the stove necessary. 

Oatmeal Dutch baby pancake with chocolate chips and pecans | Homesick Texan 

A few minutes later, I took out the Dutch baby and marveled at its generous puff, which quickly deflated but this didn’t prevent it from being any less delicious. I drizzled it with more orange juice along with a generous dusting of powdered sugar, then sliced it into wedges for serving. The whole dish took little preparation and best of all, I could enjoy my company without working too hard, which is sometimes all you want to do. 

 Print 
Oatmeal Dutch baby pancake with chocolate chips and pecans 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
4 large eggs 
1 cup whole milk 
½ cup rolled oats, not instant 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
3 tablespoons brown sugar 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
1 teaspoon granulated sugar 
½ cup chopped pecans 
2 tablespoons orange juice 
2 tablespoons orange zest 
½ cup semi-sweet chocolate chips 
Powdered sugar, for serving 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 425 °F degrees. In a blender add the eggs, milk, oats, flour, vanilla, brown sugar, cinnamon, and salt and mix until a smooth batter is formed. 


In a large ovenproof skillet, melt the butter on low heat. Add the pecans to the skillet along with the granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon of the orange juice, and the zest. While stirring, cook for 1-2 minutes until the pecans are just beginning to brown and are fragrant. Turn off the heat and lightly salt the pecans, if desired. 


Pour the batter over the pecans then evenly sprinkle over the batter the chocolate chips. Bake uncovered in the oven for 20-25 minutes or until the Dutch baby is lightly browned and puffy. 


While warm, sprinkle the Dutch baby with the remaining orange juice and then top with confectioners’ sugar. Slice into wedges and serve immediately. Note that it will deflate a bit soon after it comes out of the oven but this does not make it any less delicious. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHOCOLATE • PANCAKES • PECANS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

19 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 





START RECIPE

Blueberry cornbread 
BY LISA FAIN 
JUL 21, 2016 
Blueberry cornbread | Homesick Texan 
Last weekend after a family wedding, I stayed the night at my grandma’s before embarking on a long road trip across Texas. When I arrived at her farm, the house was rich with a savory aroma. “What are you cooking?” I ed. She said we were having ham and black-eyed peas for dinner. “And cornbread?” I said. She said yes, then ed me to make it. 

We went into the kitchen and she pointed to a cast-iron skillet and containers of cornmeal and flour on the counter. “The buttermilk and bacon grease are in the refrigerator,” she said. Then I got to work. Before I started, however, I ed her if she had any blueberries for me to add to the cornbread. She said she didn’t unfortunately, but she was intrigued. 

I explained that before arriving in Texas, I had made blueberry cornbread back in my kitchen in New York. Blueberries are in season now and I’d picked some up at the market. While I enjoy popping them in my mouth like candy, I needed to use them up before my travels and considered making muffins with my bounty. After seeing some cornmeal blueberry muffin recipes, however, I decided that baking a similar recipe in a skillet would be even better. 

Blueberry cornbread | Homesick Texan 

While I had started with my usual cornbread recipe, I added sugar to the mix and also changed the ratio of cornmeal to flour, as I wanted it to be a bit more tender and sweet. Of course, I’m one that feels sugar in cornbread is simply not done, so I was clearly breaking the rules. No matter, I was okay with making an exception in this case. Since I was shaking things up, for extra flavor I put in a bit of nutmeg and lime zest to the blueberry cornbread, too. 

After I pulled the skillet out of the oven and had my first slice, any worries I had were soon gone. Not only did the blueberry cornbread retain its essential character, but also there was the joyful bonus of tart juicy bursts from the blueberries in each bite. Sure, it was a little sweeter than regular cornbread, but not enough to be cloying. And while it was good with a pat of butter, it was also so soft that it could be eaten on its own, hot out of the oven. 

This blueberry cornbread makes for a fine beginning to the day, though it could easily be a sweet ending, too. It’s simple to put together and while you will be required to turn on your oven, it’s not for too long and I think the end results are worth the extra heat. 

Blueberry cornbread | Homesick Texan 
After describing the blueberry cornbread to my grandma, she was disappointed she didn’t have any berries in the house. No matter, we still had a fine meal of regular cornbread along with big bowls of black-eyed peas, ham, and rice. And next time, I’ll make sure we have some blueberries, too. 

 Print 
Blueberry cornbread 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 
1 1/2 cups finely ground cornmeal 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
1/4 cup sugar 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon fresh lime zest 
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
2 eggs 
2 cups buttermilk 
1 1/2 cups fresh or frozen blueberries 
Instructions 
Preheat oven to 450°F. While the oven is heating, put the oil into a 10-inch cast-iron skillet and place in the oven while the oven preheats. 


Meanwhile, mix together the cornmeal, flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, lime zest, nutmeg, and salt. Whisk together the egg and buttermilk and pour into the dry ingredients. Stir until well combined. 


Take the cast iron skillet out of then oven, and pour the hot oil into batter and stir until well combined. Add the blueberries and gently stir until evenly distributed. 


Pour the batter back into the hot skillet and bake for 18-20 minutes or until the top is lightly browned and an inserted knifes comes out clean. Serve warm. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBLUEBERRY • CORNMEAL 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

23 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 





START RECIPE

Strawberry oatmeal scones 
BY LISA FAIN 
APR 21, 2016 
Strawberry oatmeal scones | Homesick Texan 
It’s never good news when you wake up to a message that reads: “Kayaked out at 4am. May have lost everything.” 

Such was the text I received from my mom in the early hours of Tuesday morning. While on Monday she had kept in touch about the heavy rains in Houston, I will confess I wasn’t terribly concerned. It often floods in Houston in the spring, and I assumed the water would fill the streets of her neighborhood and then recede a day later as it has done in the past. 

This time, however, was different and the water came into her house. Some are calling this a 100-year flood while others are comparing the damage to Hurricane Allison, which happened in 2001. Either way, the destruction is far and wide. When looking at images of the city, it appears that most of it is soaked in water with many of the Northwest suburbs particularly hit hard. Houses and buildings rise out of the water like islands with the tops of stalled, sunken cars skimming the surface like rocks. 

Strawberry oatmeal scones | Homesick Texan 
Of course, I was grateful she was safe and in good spirits. But as we talked I began thinking about her house. While I know that life is more important than stuff, I couldn’t help wondering about her kitchen table, a beautiful wooden piece that had once belonged to my great-grandma Blanche. My mom inherited that table when I was little, and it practically glows from all the lovingly cooked meals and good conversation that has graced its presence for almost a century. It is my family’s table. 

After we got off the phone, I started going through images I’d taken of that table over the years. There were photos of our family gathered around it on Christmas day, scooping up cheesy enchiladas, rice, and beans for a holiday Tex-Mex feast. There were photos of us drinking coffee and eating raspberry bars as we relaxed and shared stories after a good meal. There were photos of my young nephews joyfully eating corny dogs, Star Wars cereal, and popsicles—special treats that make visiting their grandma in Texas extra fun. 

The most photos I had, however, were shots of the hearty baked goods my mom loves to make. While she excels at many desserts and breads, it’s her breakfast pastries such as scones that get the most applause. In fact, those are in such demand that whenever she has visitors, she will rise early and can be heard banging around in the kitchen, whipping up a batch of something good. The sweet aroma of sugar, butter, and cinnamon soon fills the house. 

Strawberry oatmeal scones | Homesick Texan 

One picture I’d taken at one of her breakfasts looked particularly inviting. It was a craggy oatmeal scone dotted with juicy berries and topped with a crunch of sugar. As always, that morning the scones had been served warm and fragrant, and while they would have been fine with a pat of creamy butter, no adornment was necessary. At the time, I had ed her how to make them and she had sent her basic scone recipe with the note to just add whatever I liked. It was as simple as that. 

This week from New York, there hasn’t been much I can do to help besides make donations and send good cheer. But cooking always helps quiet my mind, so I decided to make a batch of her scones. With strawberries in season, I chose to go with those for my batch. 

While most scones are rolled and cut like biscuits, my mom’s have always taken a more free-form approach. So after making a quick dough, you plop handfuls of it on a baking sheet, which not only keeps the scones tender but also lends them an appealing rough-hewn effect. Likewise, the finished scones are rich and buttery, yet still feel virtuous from the oatmeal. But it’s the softened berries that I love the most, as they add a jam-like burst of flavor to each bite. 

Strawberry oatmeal scones | Homesick Texan  

At this time, we don’t know what will be salvageable. Though my mom was able to get back into her home and said her cast-iron is in good shape, so there is some welcome news from her waterlogged kitchen. The most important thing, however, is that she is okay. While her table and other objects may have played an important role in my family’s history, our true treasure is the memories we’ve made together. And no storm can ever wash that away. 

 Print 
Strawberry oatmeal scones 
Servings 8 scones 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1/2 cup unsalted butter 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 cups rolled oats, not instant 
1/4 cup brown sugar 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 large egg 
1/3 cup whole milk 
4 ounces strawberries, about 8, hulled and cut into 1/2 inch pieces 
Raw sugar 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven the oven to 425 °F and line with parchment paper or lightly grease a baking sheet. In a small saucepan, melt the butter on low heat. 


Meanwhile, mix together the flour, oats, brown sugar, baking powder, salt, and cinnamon. Beat together the egg and the milk. Make a well in the dry mixture and pour in the beaten egg and the melted butter. Stir until well blended. Stir in the strawberries until evenly distributed. 


Using your hands, form roughly 1/3-cup-sized pucks (or plops, as my mom says) of dough and place about an inch apart on the baking sheet. Generously sprinkle the tops with raw sugar. Bake for 10-12 minutes or until lightly browned on top. Serve warm. They can be stored for a day or so in an airtight container but these are best enjoyed soon after baking. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBISCUITS • STRAWBERRIES 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

29 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 





START RECIPE

Ham and cheese croissant casserole 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAR 31, 2016 
Ham and cheese croissant casserole | Homesick Texan 
When I was a senior in high school, I worked in a clothing store. (If you’re curious, it was a Laura Ashley shop. Yes, I realize this dates me.) For a part-time job it was hard to beat as my co-workers were fun and I got a clothing discount. I have to admit, however, that while creating window displays, ringing cash registers, and hanging up clothes was all well and good, the best part of the day was my lunch break. During this time, I would head to a café in the mall, grab a table, and enjoy a ham and cheese croissant. 

The café wasn’t fancy, but since it was away from the main food court it was a quiet spot, which was heaven to me after working with people all morning. There were also large black and white pictures of Paris hanging on the walls, which made it feel very sophisticated. As I ate my ham and cheese croissant, I would look at those pictures and dream about life after high school. 

Even though I still have a soft spot for ham and cheese croissants, for some reason I seldom eat them anymore. I’m not sure why. Then, the other day when researching ways to use up leftover ham, I came across Nigella Lawson’s ham and cheese croissant casserole, something she calls “French Lasagne.” It appeared to be a casserole dish made up of croissants, ham and cheese, with a savory egg custard holding everything together. Making it became my top priority. 

Ham and cheese croissant casserole | Homesick Texan 

The casserole is very simple. You take day-old croissants and slice them into smaller pieces so they will fit into your preferred baking vessel. (I used a cast-iron skillet, but any two-quart baking dish will do.) You add layers of smoky ham and sharp cheese such as white cheddar and Swiss, then pour over everything an egg and milk mixture seasoned with fresh chives.  

When adapting recipes, my natural inclination is to throw in a lot of spices along with some chile peppers. While embellishments such as asparagus, spinach, and jalapeños would not be out of place here, I was seeking to make a ham and cheese croissant casserole that harkened back to the classic pastry I enjoyed as a teenager. 

With that in mind, I only added to the original egg base some mustard powder, cayenne, and herbs for a bit of piquancy and spice. I also swapped in Swiss cheese for the mozzarella called for in the original recipe instead. The end result was hearty and comforting, buttery and soft, with just enough sharp and smoky notes to keep things interesting. 

Ham and cheese croissant casserole | Homesick Texan 
If you love quiche or stuffed croissants, then this is a casserole for you. While it’s not overly complicated in its pleasures, this is a large part of its charm. It’s perfect for breakfast, but with a side salad it works well as a lunch or supper, too. And while it’s best served warm, I’ve snacked on cold leftovers that were also satisfying. The casserole is a cinch to put together, but if you’re short on time you can prepare it the night before and then bake it in the morning, which will give your busy day a gracious beginning with little effort at all. 

 Print 
Ham and cheese croissant casserole 
Servings 8 
Author Adapted by Lisa Fain from a Nigella Lawson recipe 
Ingredients 
4 or 5 croissants (12 ounces) 
8 ounces chopped ham 
1 cup 4 ounces shredded Swiss cheese 
1 cup 4 ounces white cheddar cheese 
1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh chives 
3 cups whole milk 
4 large eggs 
1 small clove garlic, minced 
1/2 teaspoon mustard powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon black pepper 
Pinch cayenne 
Instructions 
Cut each croissant in half lengthwise (as if you were opening it to make a sandwich) and then cut each cut half into 4 more pieces. 


Lightly grease a 10-inch ovenproof skillet or any other 2-quart baking dish. Lay along the bottom of the dish half of the croissants. Top the croissant layer with the ham, half of the shredded cheeses, and the chives. Top the ham and cheese layer with the remaining croissants, tearing them into additional pieces, if necessary, so they fit snugly. 


Preheat the oven to 350°F. 


Whisk together the milk, eggs, garlic, mustard powder, salt, pepper, and cayenne until well combined. Pour the eggs evenly over the casserole and then lightly press the top croissant layer into the egg mixture. Allow to rest for 20 minutes or until the bread has absorbed the egg mixture. (If you prefer, you can do this overnight. Just keep the casserole covered and refrigerated.) 


After it’s rested, top the casserole with the rest of the cheese and bake uncovered for 40-45 minutes or until puffed and golden. (The casserole will deflate a bit as it cools). Serve warm. 



SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCASSEROLE • CHEESE • EGGS • HAM • PORK 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

25 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 





START RECIPE

Banana nut coffee bread 
BY LISA FAIN 
FEB 18, 2016 
Banana nut coffee bread | Homesick Texan 
My first thought when we walked into Grandma’s Coffee Shop on the island of Maui was that it felt like Austin. It had a laid-back friendly feeling that was open and inviting. My second thought was that I needed caffeine. 

My brother, sister-in-law, and I had spent the early hours of the morning driving up to the top of a volcano to  the sun rise. It was spectacular. But after little sleep and 20 hours of travel to get to Hawaii from New York the day before, I was exhausted. Fortunately, Grandma’s had just what I needed. 

Hungry, we ordered a host of classic Hawaiian breakfast dishes such as eggs scrambled with char siu pork and Portuguese sausage, hamburger patties and rice smothered in brown gravy, banana-macadamia nut pancakes, and a coconut-pineapple breakfast bar. There were mugs of hot coffee and banana bread, too. 

Banana nut coffee bread | Homesick Texan 

When the banana bread arrived at the table, thick and warm, I noticed how dark it was compared to other banana breads I’d eaten back home. We all grabbed our forks and took a bite. It was a cake-like bread, rich and fragrant with a hint of brown sugar and coffee. It tasted like no banana bread I’d ever tried and was a perfect way to begin my trip to Hawaii.  

After I got back to New York, that banana bread was still on my mind. While I didn’t have the recipe for the bread I’d tried at Grandma’s Coffee House, I did have a recipe that my grandma had given me at one time. And taking our family’s recipe and making a few adjustments to match what I’d tried in Hawaii just seemed right to me. 

The Texas recipe called for walnuts, but still inspired by Hawaii I added macadamia nuts in one batch. With another, I used pecans. Both worked beautifully making the bread a little crunchy and sweet. To repeat that whisper of coffee I’d tasted in Hawaii, I stirred in a dash of espresso powder, which gave the bread a bit more depth. Finally, I chose to bake it in a cast-iron skillet to ensure plenty of surface area for the top crust. 

My grandma’s recipe didn’t call for oil, buttermilk, or sour cream, so I was concerned the bread would be dry, but there was no need to worry as it turned out tender and soft, dark and sweet. 

Banana nut coffee bread | Homesick Texan 

While it wasn’t exactly what I’d had in Hawaii, the combination of inspiration from two grandmothers and two cultures went together very well. It was perfect. And indeed, this banana nut coffee bread is a fine way to begin your day, no matter where you may find yourself in the world. 

 Print 
Banana nut coffee bread 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
8 tablespoons 1 stick unsalted butter, softened 
1 cup brown sugar 
1 packed cup mashed ripe bananas, 3 or 4 bananas, depending on size 
2 large eggs 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 cup chopped pecans, walnuts, or macadamia nuts 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 325°F and lightly grease a 10-inch cast-iron skillet or 9×5 bread pan. 


Cream the butter and sugar until well combined. Stir in the mashed bananas, and then add the eggs and vanilla. Stir until well combined. 


Whisk together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, espresso powder, and salt and then add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients. Stir until a sticky dark batter forms, then add the nuts. 


Spoon the batter into the skillet, smoothing the top so it’s even. Bake uncovered for 45 minutes if using a skillet (or about 1 hour if using a bread pan), or until an inserted knife comes out clean. 


Serve warm or at room temperature. 


Recipe Notes 
Instant espresso powder is instant espresso, not regular ground espresso, and you can find it at most grocery stores in the coffee aisle. If you can’t find it, you can substitute 1 teaspoon finely ground regular coffee, but please note that the texture and flavor will be a bit different. If you prefer to not use coffee at all, you can easily omit it. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBANANA • COFFEE • PECANS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

24 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 





START RECIPE

Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAY 11, 2017 
Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits | Homesick Texan 
Around midnight, I heard a knock at my bedroom door. “Are the biscuits done?” ed my grandma. I told her the batch I had made after she went to bed were indeed ready to be reheated in the morning. When she didn’t reply, I got out of bed to see if she had heard me. I opened the door but she wasn’t there, so I went looking for her and found her in the kitchen pinching off a piece of biscuit from its storage container. She took a bite, smiled, and said, “I couldn’t wait until morning. These are oh, so good!” 

When I travel, I usually prefer other people to cook. But when it comes to biscuits, I am always happy to bake up a batch. Most folks will have on hand the necessary ingredients and they are not difficult to prepare. Making biscuits is a fun thing and the small amount of effort always yields much joy. 

Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits | Homesick Texan 

My basic biscuit recipe is my most popular, as it’s a fine vehicle for honey or homemade jam. But I also like to adapt with whatever I have on hand. This has led to jalapeño cheddar biscuits, sweet potato biscuits, and tomato, cheddar, and bacon biscuits. And that’s just the ones that I’ve shared here, as there are quite a few more variations that I’ve made. A biscuit, while superb on its own, is an excellent blank canvas.  

That night in Texas, I had made for my grandma a new biscuit variation, which I am calling bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits. Yes, the name is something of a mouthful, but my grandma is correct: they are oh, so good.  
They came about when I found myself with an abundance of bacon and sweet, Texas pecans that my mom had sent. Because I kept hearing about cinnamon rolls made with biscuit dough instead of the usual yeast dough, combining the bacon, pecans, and cinnamon into one decadent pastry just felt right. 

BACON PECAN CINNAMON ROLL BISCUITS | Homesick Texan 
Would you like to try them? Here’s how. First you make a basic biscuit dough, then you fry up some bacon and crumble it. After you have your dough you roll it out, spread butter, sugar, cinnamon, pecans, and the bacon generously throughout the center. Then you roll it up, slice it into rolls and bake. You are now 15 minutes or so away from the easiest, quickest cinnamon rolls you’ve ever had. 

Are they as good as yeast-based cinnamon rolls? I think so, though I admit that they are a bit different, as biscuit dough is more rich and flaky than a risen roll, though these are not bad attributes at all. There is so much butter and sugar these are quite tender and delicious on their own. But since icing is a must for cinnamon rolls, I top these with a layer of sweet, creamy frosting spiked with more cinnamon. 

Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits | Homesick Texan 

If you’re the sort to have leftovers (though I doubt you will) these keep in the refrigerator for a day or so. You can heat them up but I’ve found they’re not bad cold. And if you make them for loved ones you’re visiting, be aware they might not be able to wait until morning, as they are oh, so good. 

 Print 
Bacon pecan cinnamon roll biscuits 
Servings 12 rolls 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
For the biscuits: 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
½ teaspoon kosher salt 
8 tablespoons unsalted butter 
¾ cup half and half 
For the filling: 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
6 ounces bacon, cooked and crumbled 
½ cup chopped pecans 
For the frosting: 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, room temperature 
1 tablespoon whole milk 
1 cup powdered sugar 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon 
Pinch salt 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 450° F and lightly grease a baking sheet or a 10-inch cast iron skillet. 


To make the biscuits, stir together the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Cut the stick of butter into pieces, and work into the flour mixture with your hands or a pastry blender until it resembles pea-sized crumbs. Add the half and half, stirring until it’s loose and sticky. 


Place the dough on a lightly-floured surface and knead it for a few seconds until it comes together. Roll the dough out into a large rectangle, about 13×9 inches, with the long side facing you. (Make sure you can lift the dough. If it’s sticking, add more flour underneath.) For the filling, spread the softened butter onto the dough, leaving a ½-inch border around the edges. Stir together the sugar and cinnamon then evenly sprinkle over the butter. Top the cinnamon-sugar with the crumbled bacon and pecans. 


Starting on one of the long sides, roll the dough and pinch ends to seal. Cut off 12 1-inch slices from the rolled dough, and place the sliced rolls close together into the baking dish. Bake uncovered for 15-17 minutes or until lightly browned. 


To make the frosting, stir together the powdered sugar, butter, milk, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt. Spread onto rolls when they come out of oven. Serve warm. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBACON • BISCUITS • PECANS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

12 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Blueberry cornbread 
BY LISA FAIN 
JUL 21, 2016 
Blueberry cornbread | Homesick Texan 
Last weekend after a family wedding, I stayed the night at my grandma’s before embarking on a long road trip across Texas. When I arrived at her farm, the house was rich with a savory aroma. “What are you cooking?” I ed. She said we were having ham and black-eyed peas for dinner. “And cornbread?” I said. She said yes, then ed me to make it. 

We went into the kitchen and she pointed to a cast-iron skillet and containers of cornmeal and flour on the counter. “The buttermilk and bacon grease are in the refrigerator,” she said. Then I got to work. Before I started, however, I ed her if she had any blueberries for me to add to the cornbread. She said she didn’t unfortunately, but she was intrigued. 

I explained that before arriving in Texas, I had made blueberry cornbread back in my kitchen in New York. Blueberries are in season now and I’d picked some up at the market. While I enjoy popping them in my mouth like candy, I needed to use them up before my travels and considered making muffins with my bounty. After seeing some cornmeal blueberry muffin recipes, however, I decided that baking a similar recipe in a skillet would be even better. 

Blueberry cornbread | Homesick Texan 

While I had started with my usual cornbread recipe, I added sugar to the mix and also changed the ratio of cornmeal to flour, as I wanted it to be a bit more tender and sweet. Of course, I’m one that feels sugar in cornbread is simply not done, so I was clearly breaking the rules. No matter, I was okay with making an exception in this case. Since I was shaking things up, for extra flavor I put in a bit of nutmeg and lime zest to the blueberry cornbread, too. 

After I pulled the skillet out of the oven and had my first slice, any worries I had were soon gone. Not only did the blueberry cornbread retain its essential character, but also there was the joyful bonus of tart juicy bursts from the blueberries in each bite. Sure, it was a little sweeter than regular cornbread, but not enough to be cloying. And while it was good with a pat of butter, it was also so soft that it could be eaten on its own, hot out of the oven. 

This blueberry cornbread makes for a fine beginning to the day, though it could easily be a sweet ending, too. It’s simple to put together and while you will be required to turn on your oven, it’s not for too long and I think the end results are worth the extra heat. 

Blueberry cornbread | Homesick Texan 
After describing the blueberry cornbread to my grandma, she was disappointed she didn’t have any berries in the house. No matter, we still had a fine meal of regular cornbread along with big bowls of black-eyed peas, ham, and rice. And next time, I’ll make sure we have some blueberries, too. 

 Print 
Blueberry cornbread 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 
1 1/2 cups finely ground cornmeal 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
1/4 cup sugar 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon fresh lime zest 
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
2 eggs 
2 cups buttermilk 
1 1/2 cups fresh or frozen blueberries 
Instructions 
Preheat oven to 450°F.    While the oven is heating, put the oil into a 10-inch cast-iron skillet and place in the oven while the oven preheats. 


Meanwhile, mix together the cornmeal, flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, lime zest, nutmeg, and salt. Whisk together the egg and buttermilk and pour into the dry ingredients. Stir until well combined. 


Take the cast iron skillet out of then oven, and pour the hot oil into batter and stir until well combined. Add the blueberries and gently stir until evenly distributed. 


Pour the batter back into the hot skillet and bake for 18-20 minutes or until the top is lightly browned and an inserted knifes comes out clean. Serve warm. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBLUEBERRY • CORNMEAL 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

23 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 
K
SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 



START RECIPE

Strawberry oatmeal scones 
BY LISA FAIN 
APR 21, 2016 
Strawberry oatmeal scones | Homesick Texan 
It’s never good news when you wake up to a message that reads: “Kayaked out at 4am. May have lost everything.” 

Such was the text I received from my mom in the early hours of Tuesday morning. While on Monday she had kept in touch about the heavy rains in Houston, I will confess I wasn’t terribly concerned. It often floods in Houston in the spring, and I assumed the water would fill the streets of her neighborhood and then recede a day later as it has done in the past. 

This time, however, was different and the water came into her house. Some are calling this a 100-year flood while others are comparing the damage to Hurricane Allison, which happened in 2001. Either way, the destruction is far and wide. When looking at images of the city, it appears that most of it is soaked in water with many of the Northwest suburbs particularly hit hard. Houses and buildings rise out of the water like islands with the tops of stalled, sunken cars skimming the surface like rocks. 

Strawberry oatmeal scones | Homesick Texan 
Of course, I was grateful she was safe and in good spirits. But as we talked I began thinking about her house. While I know that life is more important than stuff, I couldn’t help wondering about her kitchen table, a beautiful wooden piece that had once belonged to my great-grandma Blanche. My mom inherited that table when I was little, and it practically glows from all the lovingly cooked meals and good conversation that has graced its presence for almost a century. It is my family’s table. 

After we got off the phone, I started going through images I’d taken of that table over the years. There were photos of our family gathered around it on Christmas day, scooping up cheesy enchiladas, rice, and beans for a holiday Tex-Mex feast. There were photos of us drinking coffee and eating raspberry bars as we relaxed and shared stories after a good meal. There were photos of my young nephews joyfully eating corny dogs, Star Wars cereal, and popsicles—special treats that make visiting their grandma in Texas extra fun. 

The most photos I had, however, were shots of the hearty baked goods my mom loves to make. While she excels at many desserts and breads, it’s her breakfast pastries such as scones that get the most applause. In fact, those are in such demand that whenever she has visitors, she will rise early and can be heard banging around in the kitchen, whipping up a batch of something good. The sweet aroma of sugar, butter, and cinnamon soon fills the house. 

Strawberry oatmeal scones | Homesick Texan 

One picture I’d taken at one of her breakfasts looked particularly inviting. It was a craggy oatmeal scone dotted with juicy berries and topped with a crunch of sugar. As always, that morning the scones had been served warm and fragrant, and while they would have been fine with a pat of creamy butter, no adornment was necessary. At the time, I had ed her how to make them and she had sent her basic scone recipe with the note to just add whatever I liked. It was as simple as that. 

This week from New York, there hasn’t been much I can do to help besides make donations and send good cheer. But cooking always helps quiet my mind, so I decided to make a batch of her scones. With strawberries in season, I chose to go with those for my batch. 

While most scones are rolled and cut like biscuits, my mom’s have always taken a more free-form approach. So after making a quick dough, you plop handfuls of it on a baking sheet, which not only keeps the scones tender but also lends them an appealing rough-hewn effect. Likewise, the finished scones are rich and buttery, yet still feel virtuous from the oatmeal. But it’s the softened berries that I love the most, as they add a jam-like burst of flavor to each bite. 

Strawberry oatmeal scones | Homesick Texan  

At this time, we don’t know what will be salvageable. Though my mom was able to get back into her home and said her cast-iron is in good shape, so there is some welcome news from her waterlogged kitchen. The most important thing, however, is that she is okay. While her table and other objects may have played an important role in my family’s history, our true treasure is the memories we’ve made together. And no storm can ever wash that away. 

 Print 
Strawberry oatmeal scones 
Servings 8 scones 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1/2 cup unsalted butter 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 cups rolled oats, not instant 
1/4 cup brown sugar 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 large egg 
1/3 cup whole milk 
4 ounces strawberries, about 8, hulled and cut into 1/2 inch pieces 
Raw sugar 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven the oven to 425 °F and line with parchment paper or lightly grease a baking sheet. In a small saucepan, melt the butter on low heat. 


Meanwhile, mix together the flour, oats, brown sugar, baking powder, salt, and cinnamon. Beat together the egg and the milk. Make a well in the dry mixture and pour in the beaten egg and the melted butter. Stir until well blended. Stir in the strawberries until evenly distributed. 


Using your hands, form roughly 1/3-cup-sized pucks (or plops, as my mom says) of dough and place about an inch apart on the baking sheet. Generously sprinkle the tops with raw sugar. Bake for 10-12 minutes or until lightly browned on top. Serve warm. They can be stored for a day or so in an airtight container but these are best enjoyed soon after baking. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBISCUITS • STRAWBERRIES 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

29 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 

Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 



START RECIPE

Banana nut coffee bread 
BY LISA FAIN 
FEB 18, 2016 
Banana nut coffee bread | Homesick Texan 
My first thought when we walked into Grandma’s Coffee Shop on the island of Maui was that it felt like Austin. It had a laid-back friendly feeling that was open and inviting. My second thought was that I needed caffeine. 

My brother, sister-in-law, and I had spent the early hours of the morning driving up to the top of a volcano to  the sun rise. It was spectacular. But after little sleep and 20 hours of travel to get to Hawaii from New York the day before, I was exhausted. Fortunately, Grandma’s had just what I needed. 

Hungry, we ordered a host of classic Hawaiian breakfast dishes such as eggs scrambled with char siu pork and Portuguese sausage, hamburger patties and rice smothered in brown gravy, banana-macadamia nut pancakes, and a coconut-pineapple breakfast bar. There were mugs of hot coffee and banana bread, too. 

Banana nut coffee bread | Homesick Texan 

When the banana bread arrived at the table, thick and warm, I noticed how dark it was compared to other banana breads I’d eaten back home. We all grabbed our forks and took a bite. It was a cake-like bread, rich and fragrant with a hint of brown sugar and coffee. It tasted like no banana bread I’d ever tried and was a perfect way to begin my trip to Hawaii.  

After I got back to New York, that banana bread was still on my mind. While I didn’t have the recipe for the bread I’d tried at Grandma’s Coffee House, I did have a recipe that my grandma had given me at one time. And taking our family’s recipe and making a few adjustments to match what I’d tried in Hawaii just seemed right to me. 

The Texas recipe called for walnuts, but still inspired by Hawaii I added macadamia nuts in one batch. With another, I used pecans. Both worked beautifully making the bread a little crunchy and sweet. To repeat that whisper of coffee I’d tasted in Hawaii, I stirred in a dash of espresso powder, which gave the bread a bit more depth. Finally, I chose to bake it in a cast-iron skillet to ensure plenty of surface area for the top crust. 

My grandma’s recipe didn’t call for oil, buttermilk, or sour cream, so I was concerned the bread would be dry, but there was no need to worry as it turned out tender and soft, dark and sweet. 

Banana nut coffee bread | Homesick Texan 

While it wasn’t exactly what I’d had in Hawaii, the combination of inspiration from two grandmothers and two cultures went together very well. It was perfect. And indeed, this banana nut coffee bread is a fine way to begin your day, no matter where you may find yourself in the world. 

 Print 
Banana nut coffee bread 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
8 tablespoons 1 stick unsalted butter, softened 
1 cup brown sugar 
1 packed cup mashed ripe bananas, 3 or 4 bananas, depending on size 
2 large eggs 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 cup chopped pecans, walnuts, or macadamia nuts 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 325°F and lightly grease a 10-inch cast-iron skillet or 9×5 bread pan. 


Cream the butter and sugar until well combined. Stir in the mashed bananas, and then add the eggs and vanilla. Stir until well combined. 


Whisk together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, espresso powder, and salt and then add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients. Stir until a sticky dark batter forms, then add the nuts. 


Spoon the batter into the skillet, smoothing the top so it’s even. Bake uncovered for 45 minutes if using a skillet (or about 1 hour if using a bread pan), or until an inserted knife comes out clean. 


Serve warm or at room temperature. 


Recipe Notes 
Instant espresso powder is instant espresso, not regular ground espresso, and you can find it at most grocery stores in the coffee aisle. If you can’t find it, you can substitute 1 teaspoon finely ground regular coffee, but please note that the texture and flavor will be a bit different. If you prefer to not use coffee at all, you can easily omit it. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBANANA • COFFEE • PECANS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

24 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Jalapeño cheddar biscuits 
BY LISA FAIN 
SEP 24, 2015 
Everyone in my family has a special dish that we share whenever we visit each other. For instance, at Thanksgiving you’ll find my uncle Richard standing by the blender whirring up batches of his classic salsa. At Christmas, my Uncle Austin can be found handing out bags of his addictive granola. If you’re celebrating a birthday, then chances are my grandma is baking you a chocolate pie. And me? My specialty is biscuits. 

While I’ve made biscuits since I was a teenager, it wasn’t until a visit to my grandparents almost 10 years ago that my grandma decided I would become chief biscuit maker of the family. I was there to help out with my grandpa, who had been ill. Because she’d been busy taking care of him, my grandma hadn’t had the time to devote to making biscuits from scratch and was using canned ones instead. On that trip, when I presented them with a skillet of warm homemade biscuits straight from the oven it was a most welcome gift. And I’ve been on biscuit duty ever since. 

Biscuits are not hard to make, as it’s just stirring together a few ingredients and then rolling and cutting a dough. They take little time to assemble, and you can go from mixing dry ingredients to eating a hot biscuit in about half an hour or so. Even the most impatient can usually wait that long for something delicious and homemade. 

Jalapeno cheddar biscuits | Homesick Texan 

The best thing about baking biscuits, however, is how meditative the process can be. Because they’re easy to make, you don’t have to think very hard as you stir the ingredients and manipulate the dough. The most difficult t is waiting 15 minutes for the biscuits to come out of the oven. No matter how I’m feeling, the simple yet satisfying act of making biscuits always brings me peace and joy.  

My basic biscuit recipe gets the most requests, but sometimes I like to jazz things up a bit as well. For instance, you can add bacon to a biscuit or perhaps fruit. But lately my favorite addition has been jalapeños and cheddar cheese. And in the past few weeks I’ve made these jalapeño cheddar biscuits almost every day. 

For these biscuits, I cut up two jalapeño chiles into small dice and add them along with a handful of yellow cheddar cheese to my standard recipe. The jalapeños give the biscuits some kick while the cheese makes the biscuits more flaky and flavorful. It’s a winning combination. 

These jalapeño cheddar biscuits are at their best when eaten straight out of the oven, though they do reheat well and can be made ahead of time, too. I tend to slather them with butter, but they are so soft and tender that they can be enjoyed unadorned if you prefer. 

Jalapeno cheddar biscuits | Homesick Texan 

I eat them with eggs in the morning, but they also go very well with fried chicken, chili, or beans. Though if you’re like me, you really don’t need any excuse to eat a biscuit and will probably find yourself savoring them at any time of the day. And if you discover that you love making biscuits, perhaps you can become chief biscuit maker for your family, too. 

 Print 
Jalapeño cheddar biscuits 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 cup 4 ounces shredded Longhorn or medium yellow cheddar cheese 
1 or 2 jalapeños, depending on how hot you want it, seeded and finely diced 
1 stick, 8 tablespoons cold butter 
3/4 cup half-and-half 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 450°F and grease a baking sheet or a large ovenproof skillet. 


Whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Stir in the cheddar cheese, and diced jalapeños. Cut the stick of butter into 8 pieces and then work the butter into the flour mixture with your hands or a pastry blender until the flour is crumbly. Stir in the half-and-half, mixing until the dough is well combined. It’s okay if the dough is a little sticky. 


Pour the dough out on a floured surface and knead for a minute. Now the dough should be smooth and no longer wet. (You can sprinkle more flour on the surface if you find that it’s sticking.) Roll out the dough until it’s 1/4 of an inch thick and then fold over in half. 


Using a round cutter cut out the biscuits from the folded dough. (You may have to gather the scraps and roll out again if you run out of room while cutting.) Place the cut biscuits on the greased baking sheet close together (so they rise up, not out) and bake for 15 minutes or until the tops are golden brown. 


They are best straight from the oven, but they can be baked ahead and then reheated for 10 minutes or so at 400°F in an oven or toaster oven. They will last in an airtight container for 3 days. You can also freeze them after cooking and then let them thaw before reheating. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBISCUITS • CHEDDAR • CHEESE • JALAPENOS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

33 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

horizo and jalapeño breakfast pizza 
BY LISA FAIN 
JUN 2, 2015 

“You need to start blogging again,” said my grandma. 

“Yes,” I replied. “I know.” 

If you look at the last post I published, it was back in late February. But that wasn’t even a recipe or a story: it was simply a round-up for Texas Independence Day. The last recipe I shared with you was way back in January. And while it was a fine dish, it certainly wasn’t hearty enough to keep you satisfied for this long. 

This year has been a whirlwind for me, and it wasn’t until I spoke with my grandma that I realized so much time had passed. It’s always good to try new things but after a few months of being away, I realized that my favorite place to be is in my kitchen at home. 

During that same conversation with my grandma, she talked about a pizza that Uncle Austin had made her recently at the farm. “I loved it,” she said. As she described the pizza, she mentioned that it had been topped with sausage. She paused for a minute and then said, “I love sausage on pizza. And you know what would also be great? A breakfast pizza also with sausage on it. There could be eggs, too,” she added. 

Chorizo and jalapeno breakfast pizza | Homesick Texan 


That was a mighty fine idea. And so I decided to try making a breakfast pizza for myself. For the sausage, I love the spicy tangy flavor of Mexican chorizo so I chose to use that. As for a crust, I toyed with the idea of tortillas but the hearty flakiness of a biscuit dough not only tasted better but could stand up to more ingredients being piled on top, as well. 

For the eggs, I made a couple of pizzas with eggs cracked whole onto the top, but I missed the crispy edges that a whole egg gets when fried in a skillet: instead, the egg whites were just kind of gummy. There had to be eggs on the pizza, though, so for my next attempt I made the pizza with scrambled eggs. This turned out to be the way to go, as the scrambled eggs not only had more consistent coverage over the pizza, but they also melded better with the other toppings, too. 

For the final flourishes, diced red onions and jalapeños added a bit of piquancy to the pizza, and a thick layer of creamy Monterey Jack held everything together. While the pizza tasted terrific on its own, I decided to top my slices with some bright pico de gallo, salty Cotija cheese, and rich avocado to make it even more healthy and filling. 

Chorizo and jalapeno breakfast pizza | Homesick Texan 

All together, it was an excellent combination of ingredients and a wonderful way to begin my day. My grandma’s theory turned out to be correct. Breakfast pizza is not only delicious but also a mighty fine way to return to my kitchen. 

It’s good to be back. 

 Print 
Chorizo and jalapeño breakfast pizza 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the crust: 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
1/2 tablespoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
4 tablespoons cold butter 
6 tablespoons half and half or whole milk 
Ingredients for the pizza: 
2 ounces Mexican chorizo, removed from its casing 
4 large eggs 
2 tablespoons half and half or whole milk 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
Pinch kosher salt 
1 jalapeño, seeded and diced 
1/4 small red onion, finely diced 
1 cup 4 ounces shredded Monterey Jack cheese 
Cilantro leaves, for garnishing 
Pico de gallo, for serving 
Avocado slices, for serving 
Crumbled Cotija or feta cheese, for serving 
Instructions 
Heat the oven to 425°F and lightly grease a 9-inch round griddle, skillet, or baking sheet. 


To make the crust, whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut the cold butter into cubes and then add to the flour. Working quickly with your hands or a pastry cutter, work the butter into the dough until the dough is crumbly. Pour in the half and half and stir until everything has come together and a shaggy dough is formed. 


Pat the dough out evenly into the griddle or skillet. (If using a skillet, don’t work the dough up the sides—leave it just on the bottom). If using a baking sheet, pat out a 9-inch circle. Poke the dough with a fork about 4 or 5 times, and place the dough into the oven. Cook it uncovered for 5 minutes then remove from the oven. 


Meanwhile, heat a large skillet to medium-low heat. Add the chorizo and while occasionally stirring, cook for 5 minutes or until it changes from a bright red to a more brownish red. Leaving on the skillet, remove the chorizo with a slotted spoon and place it in a bowl. (It’s okay if there is some chorizo grease in the skillet, as this adds flavor. If there is an excess of grease, however, feel free to drain and discard it.) 


Add to the skillet the butter. Whisk together the eggs, half and half, salt, and pepper. When the butter has melted, pour in the eggs. Let them sit for 1 minute then add the chorizo back into the skillet and gently stir until they are loosely set. Taste the eggs with the chorizo and add a pinch of salt if you think it needs it, though I find that usually the chorizo adds enough flavor and salt isn’t necessary. 


Turn off the heat and then spoon the eggs out of the skillet and spread evenly onto the partially baked pizza crust. (You did remember to remove it from the oven, didn’t you!) 


Top the eggs evenly with the cheese, then top the cheese evenly with the onions and jalapeños. Return the pizza to the oven and cook uncovered for 8 to 10 more minutes or until the cheese is melted and the crust is lightly browned. 


Remove the pizza from the oven and sprinkle fresh cilantro leaves over the baked pizza. If you like, serve each slice topped with pico de gallo, avocado slices, and/or crumbled Cotija cheese. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHORIZO • EGGS • JALAPENOS • PIZZA • PORK • SAUSAGE 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

39 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Green chile cheeseburgers 
BY LISA FAIN 
SEP 14, 2017 
Green chile cheeseburgers | Homesick Texan 
During a trip to El Paso a few summers ago, I got in my car one morning and drove the 80-something miles to Hatch, New Mexico. My goal was to take photos of its famed long green chiles growing in the field. While I didn’t see many farms, there were plenty of shops selling chiles and such, along with restaurants offering chile-based cuisine. 

After all my time on the road, I was hungry. So, on the advice of a friend I pulled into a joint called Sparky’s and ordered its green chile cheeseburger. The seasoned patty was topped with a mixture of chopped chiles and melted American cheese, all layered onto a squishy, sweet bun. It was my first-ever green chile cheeseburger and it was outstanding. 

In Texas, green chile cheeseburgers are served in many places, especially this time of year when the fresh chiles are at their peak. Texans, of course, love heat so it only seems natural we would enjoy a juicy burger topped with peppers. But as much as Texans enjoy spicy food, their love for the green chile cheeseburger has nothing on New Mexicans’ deep and abiding passion for the dish. 

Green chile cheeseburgers | Homesick Texan 

Indeed, if you  a New Mexican where to find the best green chile cheeseburger, chances are no two answers will be the same as opinions on the matter are strong. For instance, besides Sparky’s, you’ll hear people say other New Mexican burger joints such as Blake’s or Buckhorn Tavern or Santa Fe Bite offer the best. There are also fevered debates on the correct way to prepare the burgers. Some prefer a thick patty topped with chiles before smothering the meat in a blanket of melted cheese. Others prefer their meat to be topped with cheese before adding the chiles.  

The choice of cheese is also up for consideration, with some swearing by white cheeses, such as Monterey Jack, while others stick to the classic orange slice of American. Then there are those that combine the two methods and blanket the burger with chiles, layer it with both orange and yellow cheese, then top with even more chiles. When it comes to green chile cheeseburgers, there are many paths to satisfaction. 

Now, I’ve tried them every which way and they’re all delicious. I believe that when stating your green chile cheeseburger preference there is no wrong answer. That said, when I make them at home I like my cheeseburgers to be on the thin and smashed side, and I am also a fan of the salty, melty perfection of American cheese. Because I don’t want anything getting in the way of the cheese and the meat, I top my sizzling patty with a slice of cheese as it cooks, then add the chiles on top while it’s still hot so that the diced chiles nestle into the molten cheese. 

For my buns, I toast them in a pool of melted butter for a crisp and lightly browned edge. If I’m feeling decadent, I’ll add a dab of mayonnaise or mustard, too. As for garnishes, while some purists believe that the green chiles are plenty, I’m a fan of a few more healthy bits on my burgers. So, I add iceberg as it holds up to the burger’s juices and gives a satisfying crunch. If tomatoes are in season, then a thick red slice is good. Some rings of fresh red onion are also welcome for extra punch. 

Green chile cheeseburgers | Homesick Texan 

This is how I make my green chile cheeseburgers, but there are no hard and fast rules besides the basic components of beef, chiles, and cheese. So, for instance, if you prefer a thicker patty, a different cheese, or your chiles on top of the meat instead of the cheese, then feel free to follow your heart. Indeed, when it comes to green chile cheeseburgers, there are many paths to satisfaction. 

 Print 
Green chile cheeseburger 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
8 long green chiles such as Hatch or Anaheim 
2 pounds 80 percent lean ground beef 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
8 hamburger buns, preferably potato rolls 
8 slices American cheese 
Kosher salt and black pepper 
Mayonnaise and/or mustard, for the bun 
Shredded iceberg lettuce, for garnishing 
Tomato slices, for garnishing 
Red onion rings, for garnishing 
Instructions 
Roast the chiles under the broiler until blackened on both sides, about 10-12 minutes, turning once. Once blackened, place the chiles in a paper sack or plastic food-storage bag, close it tight and let the chiles steam for 20 minutes. After the chiles have steamed, remove from the bag and rub off the skin. Remove the stems and seeds from both the chiles and chop. 


To make the burgers, divide the ground beef into 8 equal portions and form into balls. Melt 1 tablespoon of the butter in a large cast-iron skillet over medium heat. Working in batches, place the buns, cut-side down, in the skillet and cook for 1 to 2 minutes, or until lightly toasted. Transfer the first batch to a plate, add the remaining 1 tablespoon butter to the skillet, and toast the remaining buns. Cover with aluminum foil to keep warm. 


Using the same skillet, turn the heat to high. (If you don’t have a powerful hood, open a window for ventilation.) Place 2-4 meat balls in the skillet (depending on skillet size). Cook for 30 seconds, then smash down with a flat spatula to form a patty about 4 inches across. Season the patties with salt and pepper. 


After 2 minutes, or when the patties have developed a crust on the bottom, flip them, top with a slice of cheese, and cook for 1 to 2 more minutes, or until the meat is cooked to your liking and the cheese has melted. Rest the patties on a plate and top with chopped green chiles. Repeat cooking process with the remaining meat balls. 



Dress the buns with mayonnaise and/or mustard, if desired. Place lettuce, tomato, and/or onions on the bottom bun then top with the patties. Cover with the top bun and serve immediately. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBEEF • CHILES • SANDWICH 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

24 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

South Padre shrimp ceviche 
BY LISA FAIN 
AUG 3, 2017 
South Padre shrimp ceviche | Homesick Texan 
This time last summer, I found myself on South Padre Island. I was thick into a queso road trip and as such had been eating multiple bowls of molten cheese from morning until night. While that experience was indeed glorious, after a couple of weeks I needed something more light and acidic. A restaurant on the island called Ceviche, Ceviche provided just what I craved. 

This take-out spot, not far from the ocean, had been highly recommended to me as a fine place to get fish and shrimp mixed with fruits and vegetables such as tomatoes, cantaloupe, jicama, and avocado. The set up was much like Chipotle, in that you choose your protein base and then let the person behind the counter add in whatever other ingredients strike your fancy. 
 
South Padre shrimp ceviche | Homesick Texan 

That day, I was feeling traditional and so I went with Gulf shrimp, which was in season, along with a classic blend of tomatoes, garlic, onions, jalapeños, and avocado. A generous splash of lime juice brought it all together and gave it additional life. When it was done, I took my ceviche, walked past the grassy dunes, sat on the sand, and ed the water crest and fall as I ate. It was a perfect lunch. 

Ceviche is originally from Peru but eventually made its way to Mexico and then Texas. There are countless combinations of ingredients, but the foundation of any ceviche is the same—seafood marinated in an acidic liquid mixed with other herbs, fruits, and vegetables. Firm and fresh white fish such as snapper, sea bass, and halibut are good options, but my favorite protein for ceviche is Gulf shrimp, which is what I’ve used here. 

South Padre shrimp ceviche | Homesick Texan 
This recipe, which is much like the one I had in South Padre, is perhaps the most popular variation you’ll find along the Texas coast. To eat the ceviche, I like to scoop it onto salty tortilla chips, though it can also be placed on tostadas or in tortillas. Some folks like to serve it on a bed of lettuce, too. Of course, there’s no right or wrong way to enjoy ceviche. You simply need a desire for something crisp and fresh that will remind you of lazy days savoring the sunshine, the waves, and the beach. 

 Print 
South Padre shrimp ceviche 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Kosher salt 
1 pound small shrimp, peeled and deveined 
1 cup freshly squeezed lime juice, from 4-8 limes, depending on how juicy they are 
3 ripe plum tomatoes, seeded and diced 
2 jalapeños, seeded and diced 
¼ cup diced red onion 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
¼ cup chopped cilantro 
½ teaspoon ground cumin 
½ teaspoon dried oregano 
1 avocado, peeled, pitted, and diced 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
Tortilla chips, for serving 
Lime wedges, for serving 
Instructions 
Bring a pot of water to a boil, stir in about a tablespoon of salt, add the shrimp, then cook for 1 minute. Drain the shrimp then rinse under cold water for a minute to prevent any further cooking. Chop the shrimp into ½-inch pieces, then place in a non-reactive container and cover with the lime juice. Refrigerate and marinate for 10 minutes. 


After this time, drain the shrimp from the juice, reserving the lime juice. In a serving bowl, mix the shrimp with the tomatoes, jalapeños, red onion, garlic, cilantro, cumin, oregano, olive oil, and avocado. Stir in the oil, then add some of the reserved lime juice. I start with 3 tablespoons of juice, then taste and adjust seasonings, adding salt to taste and more juice if needed. 


Serve immediately with tortilla chips and lime wedges. It can be eaten as a dip or on individual plates with utensils. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCOASTAL BEND • SALAD • SHRIMP • SOUTH TEXAS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

10 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Ancho chile and cocoa-rubbed flank steak tacos 
Ancho chile and cocoa make for an earthy, fiery rub for flank steak 

BY LISA FAIN 
MAY 24, 2017 
The path to Houston from DFW is direct once you make your way to I-45 from the airport. But in search of Truth Barbecue in Brenham, after landing in Dallas I consulted my map and took I-35 instead. My phone had me exit the freeway a few miles south of West and while I wasn’t quite sure where I was, it was still early enough in the day I figured I could arrive at the restaurant before they were sold out of meat. 

To shorten a long story that involves a patch of bluebonnets, a swarm of love bugs, a white car, and a good hour without any phone reception, let’s just say I ended up in Snook, where nothing was open, even its famed restaurant Sodolak’s Country Inn, “Home of the Chicken-Fried Bacon.” At this point, Truth was closed and I was going to be late for the evening service at my mom’s church. So, I got on Highway 290 and made my way towards Cypress. We had tacos for dinner instead. 

Ancho chile and cocoa-rubbed flank steak tacos | Homesick Texan 

Now it’s a given that I miss Texas often. But after being back in New York for a couple of weeks and then reading about all the great barbecue in Texas via Texas Monthly’s latest Top 50 list (on which Truth landed in the top 10), my homesickness has been strong. Sure, there’s now decent barbecue in New York. But taking the subway to a restaurant is not the same as an early morning road trip along Texas back roads in pursuit of a butcher paper-lined tray piled high with brisket, sausage, and ribs.  

While I can’t make true barbecue due to my lack of an outdoor space (New York City has funny regulations about grills and smokers being used on a fire escape), I can make a steak. (As well as oven brisket and ribs, should you be interested). While my favorite preparation is to simply salt and pepper a rib-eye then fry it butter in a sizzling cast-iron skillet, sometimes I take a piece that needs a bit more handling, such as flank steak. 

Flank is a cut that comes from the abdominal section of the cow. Because these muscles get a lot of work, it’s a tougher piece but it also has a fantastic flavor. I don’t mind the chew so much, but you do need to be careful when cooking it as it can quickly go from delectable to jaw breaking. 

Ancho chile and cocoa-rubbed flank steak tacos | Homesick Texan 

Many times, applications for cooking flank steak will involve lots of acidic liquid to soften the meat. This is fine, but I do find it’s hard to get the marinade off completely and then you have a wet piece of meat that doesn’t blacken. So often I will use a dry rub with an acidic element to lightly tenderize the meat while still transferring flavor.  
Sugar is one popular way to make the meat more tender, but its sweetness can irk me when I’m making a savory dish. Enter unsweetened cocoa, which not only has an earthy, bittersweet essence but it’s also acidic and can help make the meat more palatable. The cocoa’s tones are a natural fit with red chiles, so I also add ancho chile powder to my rub. To balance things out, I add cinnamon, cumin, garlic, and smoked paprika for a hint of sweetness and fire. 

To cook the steak, I place it in a hot cast-iron skillet on the stove for about 8 minutes, turning once. There will be lots of smoke (be sure and open the windows) but the char will be intense and a delectable crust will form. (Of course, if you prefer to grill this steak outside, by all means please do though I’m not qualified to talk about that just yet.) After it’s done, I let it rest for 10 minutes then thinly slice it. 

Ancho chile and cocoa-rubbed flank steak tacos | Homesick Texan 

You could eat it on its own, but tacos are better. I nestle the steak into warm flour tortillas then I doll it up with guacamole and pico de gallo, but any salsa would do. Sour cream and cheese are also welcome, but you don’t want to crowd the meat too much as it shines on its own. And while these steak tacos are not barbecue, they taste of home and will make you happy. And that’s the truth. 

 Print 
Ancho Chile and cocoa-rubbed flank steak tacos 
Servings 4 
Author Adapted by Lisa Fain from Gourmet Magazine 
Ingredients 
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder 
1/2 tablespoon ancho chile powder or chili powder 
1/2 tablespoon kosher salt 
1 teaspoon black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon smoked paprika 
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic 
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 ½ pounds flank steak 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
8 flour tortillas, for serving 
Guacamole, for serving 
Pico de gallo, for serving 
Instructions 
To make the rub, stir together the cocoa powder, ancho chile powder, salt, black pepper, smoked paprika, garlic, cumin, and cinnamon. Generously rub onto both sides of the flank steak, and either let the steak rest uncovered at room temperature for 1 hour, or refrigerate covered overnight, then bring back to room temperature before cooking. 


To cook the steak, heat the oil in a large cast-iron skillet on medium-high heat. After a couple of minutes, when the oil begins to shimmer, add the steak. Cook for 8 minutes, turning once, for medium-rare. There will be lots of sizzling and perhaps smoke, so you may want to open your windows. When the steak is done, remove it from the skillet and allow it to rest for 10 minutes before slicing it thinly against the grain. 


As the steak cooks, warm the tortillas. Serve the steak with the tortillas, guacamole, and pico de gallo on the side at the table so people can make their own tacos. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBEEF • TACOS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

14 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Tortilla-crusted shrimp 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAR 23, 2017 
Tortilla-crusted shrimp | Homesick Texan 
“Did you know that if you dip a Frito into ketchup it tastes like fried shrimp?” ed my aunt. I told her I did not. She explained that she’d been at a party where everyone brought strange concoctions and this was one of the dishes on offer. “I was doubtful,” she said, “but it’s surprising how your mind is fooled.” 

Curious, when I returned home I grabbed a bag of Fritos, squirted some ketchup into a bowl, and began to dip. It wasn’t a perfect substitution, but if I closed my eyes and hadn’t been aware of what I was eating, I might have believed it was fried shrimp. Amazing. But as much as I love Fritos I might love fried shrimp even more. Sure, that trick of the mind had been initially pleasing, but ultimately all it did was make me crave the real thing even more. It was time to make a batch and get some true satisfaction. 

Tortilla-crusted shrimp | Homesick Texan 

Inspired by the corn chips, instead of doing my usual flour or saltine dredge I opted to coat my shrimp in crushed tortilla chips. Now, in my second cookbook I have a recipe for a tortilla-crusted fish, so taking a lead from that I applied it to my shrimp. First, I lightly seasoned the shrimp then coated them with flour to help everything stick. Next the shrimp were given a quick dip in some eggs and then dredged through crushed tortilla chips seasoned with black pepper, garlic, and cayenne.  

Usually I fry my shrimp in oil, but that creates a huge mess and I wanted something more quick and easy. My tortilla-crusted fish was baked, and while I’d never prepared coated shrimp in the oven I gave it a try. After a few minutes at high heat, the tortilla-chip shell was crisp and the shrimp were sweet and snappy. The most difficult thing about the whole process was getting the chips onto the shrimp. 

With fried seafood, I’m equal opportunity about my dips and often go with buttermilk dressing, melted butter, or tartar sauce. Taking a lead from my initial inspiration—those chips in ketchup—for these I kept the ketchup and jazzed it up with horseradish, lime juice, and chipotle chile powder. A smoky, spicy cocktail sauce was born. 

Tortilla-crusted shrimp | Homesick Texan 

After I pulled the shrimp out of the oven I squirted them with lime juice, and when they were cool enough to handle I began to dip them in the sauce. Fried shrimp always take me back to summertime trips to Galveston. And while I ate, if I closed my eyes I was back on the beach with sunburned cheeks enjoying a bet with good friends. True satisfaction indeed. 

 Print 
Tortilla-crusted shrimp 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
2 cups finely crushed tortilla chips 
1/2 teaspoon black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 
¼ teaspoon cayenne 
Kosher salt 
1 pound medium shrimp, shelled and deveined 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
2 large eggs 
½ cup ketchup 
1 teaspoon horseradish 
1/2 teaspoon chipotle chile powder 
1 teaspoon freshly squeezed lime juice 
Sliced lime, for serving 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 450°F and grease a baking sheet with cooking spray. 


Season the crushed tortilla chips with the pepper, garlic powder, and cayenne. Taste and adjust the seasonings if needed, adding salt to taste. (Depending on the chips, I usually start with ¼ teaspoon.) 


Lightly salt and pepper the shrimp then toss with the flour. (If using frozen shrimp that’s been thawed in cold water, pat down the shrimp with a paper towel before seasoning so they aren’t too wet.) Beat the eggs until bright yellow and place ½ cup of the crushed tortilla chips into a bowl. (You only start with 1/2 cup so you can refresh the chips as you dredge, which keeps them from becoming too clumpy.) 


Working in batches, dip the flour-coated shrimp into the eggs then dredge in the tortilla chips. Place coated shrimp on the baking sheet. A quarter-way through the process, refresh the tortilla chip dredge with another ½ cup fresh crushed tortilla chips, then continue to dredge. Repeat the process until all the shrimp are coated. 


Bake uncovered for 7 minutes, then remove the sheet from the oven and flip the shrimp over to the other side. Return to the oven and cook for 5-7 more minutes or until the coating is lightly browned and the shrimp are pink. 


As they are baking, to make a chipotle cocktail sauce stir together the ketchup, horseradish, chipotle powder, and lime juice. Taste and add salt, if needed. After the shrimp are done, serve warm with the chipotle cocktail sauce and limes on the side. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSSHRIMP • TORTILLAS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

23 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Red chile cheese enchiladas 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAR 9, 2017 
Red chile cheese enchiladas | Homesick Texan 
In the spring of 2009, I visited El Paso. While I’d been there before, for this trip my plan was to fly into the city, rent a car, and then continue to Marfa like I’d done in the past. But when I told a friend that I would be in her hometown, she insisted I spend a few meals in the city before hitting the road. “The food is unlike any you’ve ever had,” she said. 

She gave me a list of places to try and one of them was Carnitas Queretaro. As the name implies, this is a pork-centric restaurant that specializes in said little meats and my plan was to try the namesake dish. The morning I visited, however, a server walked past me carrying a plate of enchiladas. They were bright red and smothered with white molten cheese, and it was so fragrant that as she passed I turned my head to follow the plate to its destination. A few minutes later, the server approached my table to take my order. I nodded to where she’d dropped off the enchiladas and said I wanted the same. 

Red chile cheese enchiladas | Homesick Texan 

When my enchiladas arrived, a light steam rose from the hot plate. On it were two soft corn tortillas smothered in that rich, vibrant sauce along with a blanket of melted cheese. I took my first bite, and they were earthy, chewy, and creamy with a touch of heat. The red chile sauce made them distinct from other cheese enchiladas I’d had in Texas, but they were still familiar. They were excellent and I loved them. 

Now, typically Tex-Mex cheese enchiladas have a sauce made with ancho chiles, which is a dried poblano pepper that is earthy with bittersweet hints of raisins and chocolate. In El Paso, however, the dried chiles commonly used come from long, green chiles, what people may refer to as Hatch chiles, which are in the same family as Anaheim chiles. These chiles, which can be called New Mexico chiles or chiles colorado, differ from anchos in that they are fruitier, though they too have that earthy essence. While neither is terribly hot, I do find that New Mexican chiles can sometimes be more fiery than anchos. 

Red chile cheese enchiladas | Homesick Texan 

While I’ve returned to El Paso several times since that visit, when I was recently looking at photos from my trip in 2009, it occurred to me I had never attempted to make those red chile cheese enchiladas at home. That needed to change. Fortunately, I happened to have some New Mexican chiles in my pantry, and so I began to craft my sauce, which is the foundation of the dish. 

Red chile sauce is ubiquitous in El Paso and while most recipes are similar I discovered that no family makes their sauce the same way. For mine, I decided to go with lots of garlic, onion, cumin, and oregano, along with broth and the dried chiles, which made a flavorful sauce. Some may strain the sauce or add flour to thicken it, but I found if you pureed it long enough in the blender you could eliminate those steps. For the enchiladas, I used Monterey Jack since in El Paso white cheese is preferred over the yellow cheese more popular throughout the rest of the state. To serve, a garnish of thinly sliced onions, pickled jalapeños, and a scoop of guacamole made them complete. 

Red chile cheese enchiladas | Homesick Texan 

The resulting plate was just as I remembered, and these hearty, cheesy enchiladas were West Texas-style comfort food at its finest. And as I took each bite, I thought about how wonderful it is that Texas with its vast and varied landscape contains such a diverse and delicious cuisine. I’m glad that I followed my friend’s advice to spend time eating in El Paso, and I look forward to visiting again soon. 

 Print 
Red chile cheese enchiladas 
Servings 6 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
ngredients for the red chile sauce: 
12 dried New Mexican chiles, about 3 ounces, seeded and stemmed 
1 bay leaf 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1/2 cup chopped yellow onion 
4 cloves garlic, chopped 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
2 cups chicken or vegetable broth 
Salt 
Ingredients for the enchiladas: 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
12 corn tortillas 
1 1/2 pounds 3 cups shredded Monterey Jack or Muenster 
Diced or thinly sliced yellow onion, for serving 
Pickled jalapeños, for serving 
Guacamole, for serving 
Instructions 
In a dry skillet heated on high, toast the New Mexican chiles on each side for about 10 seconds or just until they start to puff. Fill the skillet with enough water to cover the chiles and add the bay leaf. Leave the heat on until the water begins to boil and then turn off the heat and let the chiles soak until soft, about 30 minutes. Once hydrated, discard the soaking water and the bay leaf then rinse the chiles. Place the chiles in a blender. 


Meanwhile, to make the sauce, in a medium saucepan heat the oil on medium-low heat. Add the onion and the garlic and while occasionally stirring, cook until softened and fragrant, about 3-5 minutes. Turn off the heat. Add the onion and garlic to the blender, along with the cumin, oregano, and broth. Puree for 5 minutes or until smooth. 


Pour the sauce into the saucepan and cook on medium-low heat for 10 minutes or until warm and slightly reduced. Taste and adjust seasonings, adding salt if needed. You should have about 3 cups of sauce, though if you have a bit more or less that’s fine. 


For the enchiladas, first preheat the oven to 350°F and pour the oil into a 9×13 baking dish. To quickly warm the tortillas, place them in the baking dish (it’s okay if they overlap) and make sure they get covered in the oil. Place the uncovered in the oven for 3-5 minutes or until the tortillas are soft and warm. Remove the tortillas from the baking pan and keep covered. Pour half the red chile sauce into the baking dish. 


To assemble the enchiladas, place a warm tortilla on a clean surface and add 1/4 cup of the cheese and then roll the tortilla. Place rolled tortillas in the baking dish, seam side down. Repeat with the remaining tortillas. Evenly pour over the enchiladas the remaining salsa, then top with the remaining cheese. 


Bake uncovered for 15-20 minutes or until the cheese has melted. Top the enchiladas with the onion and jalapeños, and serve warm with guacamole on the side. 


Recipe Notes 
Dried New Mexican chiles can be found in the spice or international section at many supermarkets or at Mexican grocers. If you can’t find them, guajillo chiles are a good substitution. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHEESE • CHILES • ENCHILADAS • WEST TEXAS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

35 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Jalapeño cheese dog mac & cheese 
BY LISA FAIN 
FEB 16, 2017 
Jalapeno cheese dog mac and cheese | Homesick Texan 
When I was in California last month for the photo shoot for Queso!, there was a copy of The Mac & Cheese Cookbook on hand at the studio. It was also published by Ten Speed and is the same size as mine, so looking through it gave me a good idea of what to expect with my book. 

As I was flipping through the pages, oohing and ahhing at all the tempting recipes, my editor mentioned how much she had enjoyed cooking from it. “My favorite is the one with hot dogs and potato chips,” she said. 

Curious what that combination would entail, I quickly flipped to that recipe and it was as simple as it sounds—elbow macaroni and sliced hot dogs smothered in a creamy cheddar sauce and topped with potato chips. I made a mental note I would have to make it when I got back home. 

Jalapeno cheese dog mac and cheese | Homesick Texan 

Now, as I pondered the dish, I began to think about all the ways I could adapt it. While Texans certainly eat their fair share of potato chips and hot dogs, there are other dogs popular across the state. For instance, bacon-wrapped Mexican hot dogs are common, as are San Antonio crispy dogs, corny dogs, chili-cheese dogs, and hot dog breakfast tacos. There are even places that top their dogs with macaroni and cheese. There was a lot to consider. 

Then I remembered a hot dog I once had that was smothered in cheese sauce and topped with potato chips, which sounded like the idea behind the macaroni and cheese. That hot dog had been delicious, but I felt it could be more lively: a handful of chopped pickled jalapeños would have been the perfect touch. With that in mind, I then knew just what to do with my take on hot dog macaroni and cheese. 

The authors, who own an Oakland restaurant called Homeroom that specializes in macaroni and cheese, use a basic béchamel as the foundation for their sauce, so I did the same. To this, however, I also added garlic and pickled jalapeños, before tossing it with the cooked elbow noodles and hot dog slices. A generous helping of cheddar cheese was mixed with the macaroni and then I broiled the skillet until bubbling. Before serving, I topped it with the potato chips, using jalapeño-flavored ones for extra heat. 

Jalapeno cheese dog mac and cheese | Homesick Texan 

Crunchy, creamy, snappy, and hot—the dish was jalapeño cheese dog mac & cheese heaven. And while that might not be a place you ever thought you wanted to visit, trust me—it might be a bit uncouth but it is very, very good. 

 Print 
Jalapeño cheese dog mac & cheese 
Servings 8 
Author Adapted by Lisa Fain from The Mac & Cheese Cookbook 
Ingredients 
8 ounces elbow macaroni delimING
3 hot dogs delimING
3 tablespoons unsalted butter delimING
2 cloves garlic minced delimING
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour delimING
2 cups whole milk delimING
12 ounces 3 cups shredded yellow Cheddar delimING
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt delimING
1/2 teaspoon black pepper delimING
1/4 teaspoon mustard powder delimING
¼ teaspoon cayenne delimING
½ cup chopped pickled jalapeños delimING
2 cups lightly crushed jalapeño potato chips delimING
Instructions 
Cook the macaroni in a pot of boiling, salted water until tender. Drain and rinse. 
Meanwhile, cut the hot dogs in half lengthwise. Melt 1 tablespoon of the butter in a large oven-proof skillet on medium-high heat. Place the hot dogs in the skillet and cook for 5 minutes, turning once, or until beginning to darken on each side. Remove the hot dogs. 
Turn the heat in the skillet down to medium-low and add the remaining 2 tablespoons of the butter to the skillet. Stir in the garlic and cook for 30 seconds then stir in the flour. While stirring, cook until the flour is beginning to brown, about 1 minute. 
Pour in the milk, and while stirring cook until the sauce thickens, about 3-5 minutes. Stir in 2 cups of the cheese, a handful at a time, stirring until the cheese melts and the sauce is smooth. Stir in the salt, pepper, mustard powder, and cayenne. Turn off the heat. 
Turn on the broiler and position a rack 4 inches away from the heating element. Cut the hot dogs into smaller pieces. Stir into the sauce the drained macaroni, hot dogs, and jalapeños. Taste and adjust seasonings, if you like. (Be careful with the salt, however, as the chips and hot dogs will also be salty.) 
Cover the macaroni evenly with the remaining 1 cup of cheese and then place under the broiler until the top is bubbling, a couple of minutes. Remove the skillet from the oven and top with the crushed potato chips. Serve warm. 
Recipe Notes 
It’s important to grate your own cheese! Pre-shredded cheese in a bag has fillers to prevent it from clumping that also keep it from melting smoothly into the sauce, so I don’t recommend using it. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHEESE • HOT DOGS • JALAPENOS • SAUSAGE 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

14 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Texas potato salad with nasturtiums 
BY LISA FAIN 
JUN 20, 2017 
Texas potato salad with nasturtiums | Homesick Texan 
There was once a town in North Texas known as Cathron’s Store. In the late 1800s, a grocery, a grist mill, and a post office could be found in this small Lamar County community, though by 1905 the name had changed to Tigertown and Cathron’s Store was no more. Most people, I reckon, have never heard of this place: it is forgotten. But because of a most unusual potato salad recipe by one of its residents, the town and its legacy continue. 

Now, I realize that potato salad may seem an odd subject for contemplation, but Texan-style potato salad—which is typically yellow and tangy with mustard and often mashed to the point where you can’t tell where the potatoes end and the other ingredients begin—is not usually seen outside the state. It’s a unique dish. 

Curious as to its beginnings, I began to do research and delved into a collection of recipes from the 1800s to see how it was made in the state’s early days. Most of the potato salad recipes followed a familiar fashion with hard-boiled eggs, pickles, and onions all bringing color and spark to the dish. Surprisingly, mustard was the preferred dressing even then, and while some recipes were prepared with cubed or sliced potatoes, mashed potatoes were used, too. The potato salad that Texans eat today has deep roots. 

Texas potato salad with nasturtiums | Homesick Texan 

As I was reading, I came across a mashed potato salad by a Texan named Mrs. Lissa Gardner Bowman. She lived in Cathron’s Store. Her version started with leftover potatoes that she mashed and then mixed with the usual suspects. But just when things were becoming predictable, Mrs. Bowman encouraged the cook to go out into the garden and pick some nasturtiums for garnish. Not only was her hometown new to me, but also was her directive to add flowers to one’s potato salad.  

Admittedly, I don’t cook with nasturtiums and I certainly don’t have a garden. But I had to try this unique combination so I headed over to the Union Square Greenmarket to see what I could find. My first stop was at the stand of Windfall Farms, a reliable source of squash blossoms, and to my delight they had a whole cooler full of the brightly colored nasturtium blooms. With a bit of a jig and much jubilation, I bought some flowers and rushed home to recreate the dish. A windfall indeed! 

In my kitchen, I had the rest of the ingredients, which included cucumber pickles, diced onion, and hard-boiled eggs. (Pickled beets were also recommended, but I demurred as I’m not a fan). The original recipe’s dressing was only vinegar, but I augmented that with some melted butter and mustard, a popular combination found in most other Texas potato salad recipes from the late 1800s. Since I’d never tried nasturtiums before, I ate one and was surprised at its peppery bite. It was assertive and strong, a sharp edge to the plain potatoes, so I chopped a handful and mixed them into the salad, too. 

Texas potato salad with nasturtiums | Homesick Texan 

After it all came together, I garnished the salad with more flowers. It was the prettiest potato salad I’d ever seen with a flavor both familiar and new. So, here’s to Cathron’s Store, Mrs. Bowman, and a delicious addition to my side dish repertoire. It’s a joy to have discovered all three. 

 Print 
Texas potato salad with nasturtiums 
Servings 6 
Author Adapted by Lisa Fain from The Journal of Agriculture Cook Book 
Ingredients 
3 pounds russet potatoes 
Salt 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar 
¼ cup yellow mustard 
1/2 cup diced dill pickle 
¼ cup finely diced red onion 
¼ cup finely chopped flat parsley 
3 hard boiled eggs, peeled and finely chopped 
4-6 freshly picked nasturtium blossoms 
Black pepper 
Instructions 
Peel the potatoes then cut into 2-inch pieces. Place the potatoes in a large pot, cover with cold water, bring to a boil on high, then turn the heat down to medium and cook until fork tender, about 10 minutes. Drain and rinse and turn off the heat. 


While still warm, return the potatoes to the pot and add the butter. Mash the potatoes with a masher, leaving a few lumps, then stir the warm potatoes with the butter until the butter is melted. Stir in the apple cider vinegar, mustard, dill pickle, onion, parsley, and eggs. 


Leaving 2 nasturtium blossoms for garnish, finely chop the remaining blossoms then mix into the salad. Taste and add salt and pepper to taste. 


Chill for 4 hours. Garnish with the remaining whole blossoms before serving. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSPOTATO • PRAIRIES AND LAKES • SALAD 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

17 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Green chile scalloped onions 
BY LISA FAIN 
APR 12, 2017 
Green chile scalloped onions | Homesick Texan 
Spring is always a late arrival in New York. While I’ve been hearing about people in Texas enjoying the bounty of bluebonnets over the past few weeks, it’s remained cold and lifeless up here in the North. This week, however, the temperature rose and as I walked down the street I saw that the trees were finally in bloom. At last. 

While the signs of a new season have been slow to arrive, due to the miracle of transportation we can now get produce from just about anywhere in the world. There is an argument for eating locally, but when it’s been cold and grey for the past few months and the farmers market is still only selling the same tired apples and winter squash, you take what you can get. So, when I saw a huge display of Texas sweet onions at my grocery the other day it was cause for celebration. 

Texas sweet onions, also known as Texas 1015s, were developed in the 1980s by some onion-loving Aggies. They are related to other American sweet onions such as the Walla Walla of Washington and the Vidalia of Georgia, but I believe that Texas sweet onions are the best. And my store must also agree, as the display was prominently placed. I grabbed as many as I could. 

Green chile scalloped onions | Homesick Texan 

My grandma used to grow onions back when she kept her garden, and they have long been family favorites. We slice them into salads, sprinkle them on top of enchiladas, and batter and fry big, wide onion rings. These are all fine applications, but as I was doing some research I came across a series of scalloped onion recipes in Texas newspapers from the early 1900s. The gist of each story was that scalloped onions are a mighty fine addition to the springtime table. 

The classic scalloped dish involves baked sliced vegetables nestled in a creamy sauce that’s topped with cheese and/or crumbs. There are endless variations, which makes it easily malleable, and scalloped onions follow the same path. For mine, I adapted a recipe from a 1929 edition of the Cass County (TX) Sun, which had you cover lightly cooked onions in cream sauce along with handfuls of cheese. For a bit of heft, a topping of cracker crumbs was layered on top. 

Using this as my guide, I took my batch of spring onions and after slicing them, I gently sautéed them in butter until they were tender. Their flavor is delicate, so to keep from overwhelming them I seasoned them only with salt, pepper, and a hit of cayenne. To update the recipe, I added green chiles for a Texas-style pop. Traditionally a sharp cheddar cheese was used in scalloped onions, but I went with the creamier sweetness of Monterrey Jack combined with heavy cream. Finally, I layered crushed buttery round cracker crumbs on top, which brought the whole dish together. 

To be honest, I wasn’t expecting much and I admit it isn’t the prettiest thing. But taste is what’s key and these green chile scalloped onions are spectacular. The soft onions and piquant chiles are nicely complimented by the cheesy filling and it’s quite addictive once you start eating. 

Green chile scalloped onions | Homesick Texan 

If you’re a fan of onion dishes, such as onion rings or onion dip, you will love this simple yet sublime casserole. While it doesn’t taste exactly like either, its inherent sweet onion qualities are charming and present. And the cheese, cream, and crackers holding it together make it a comforting must. It’s appropriate for any spring feast as it goes well with ham, brisket, and lamb, though it’s so delicious I could eat it on its own. A fine spring treat, indeed! 

 Print 
Green chile scalloped onions 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2 pounds (2 or 3 sweet onions) such as 1015 or Vidalia, cut into slivers 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon black pepper 
Pinch cayenne 
4 ounces canned diced green chiles 
½ cup heavy cream 
4 ounces (1 cup) Monterey Jack, shredded 
1 cup finely crushed buttery round cracker crumbs 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 375° F. 


Melt the butter in a 10-inch cast-iron skillet on medium-low heat. (If you don’t have a cast-iron skillet, use a regular skillet but also lightly grease a 2-quart baking dish.) Add the onions and while occasionally stirring, cook until softened, reduced, and just beginning to brown, about 10-12 minutes. 


Turn off the heat and season with salt, black pepper, cayenne, and green chiles. Taste and adjust seasonings. Stir in the heavy cream and Monterey Jack until well combined. If using a cast-iron skillet, evenly layer the crushed crackers on top of the onions. If using a baking dish, transfer the onions to the dish before layering the crumbs on top. 


Bake uncovered for 20 minutes or until lightly browned and bubbling. Serve warm. 


Recipe Notes 
Green chiles aren’t in season yet and are hard to find in New York, which is why I went with canned. But if you have access to fresh ones you can substitute 2 Anaheim or Hatch chiles, roasted, peeled, and diced for the canned diced green chiles. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHILES • ONIONS • VEGETABLE 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

17 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Black-eyed pea and hominy casserole 
BY LISA FAIN 
DEC 29, 2016 
Black-eyed pea and hominy casserole | Homesick Texan 
What a year it has been. Every time I looked at the news, it seemed another awful thing was being reported. Not to mention there was an inordinate amount of strife and loss in my friends’ lives this year, too. I am very much looking forward to a fresh start in January. 

That said, despite the challenges of 2016 there were some bright spots for which I am very grateful. I traveled to some amazing places, I wrote another book (more on this soon!), and best of all, I spent a lot of time this year with my far-flung family and friends. And even if we happened to be gathering for a difficult situation, such as when my mom’s house flooded in the spring, there was still peace and harmony to be found, most often when we were gathered around the table. 

For instance, when we were helping my mom move into her temporary home, people kept bringing over breakfast tacos, salads, and sandwiches to keep us sustained as we dealt with the mess. When the food arrived, we’d stop what we’re doing, sit down, and eat. And when we paused things began to seem a bit normal again. With my friends I noticed this trend as well. During this year’s political season we didn’t all see eye to eye and sometimes the arguments were heated. But whenever we’d stop and share a meal, we were able to find our common ground once again. At the table there was peace and harmony. 

Black-eyed pea and hominy casserole | Homesick Texan 
Every year around this time, I start to test black-eyed pea recipes to share with you. It’s a lot of fun for me as I adore these earthy legumes and don’t eat them often enough. Hominy is considered a good-fortune food in El Paso and New Mexico, so I decided combining it with black-eyed peas would be a novel thing to do. 

At first I was just going to cook the two together in some sort of broth. But considering the year that’s passed, I felt extra comfort and fortification were necessary. Since nothing is more soothing than a thick blanket of melted cheese, I made a casserole. And as long as you have black-eyed peas, hominy, and cheese hanging out in a hot dish, you might as well invite jalapeños, bacon, and Rotel tomatoes to the party, as well. They were definitely welcome additions. 

This is a bit untraditional, I admit, but if you are a fan of dishes such as King Ranch or chicken tortilla casserole, think of this as similar but with black-eyed peas and hominy instead. It’s a satisfying side but it could also be a meal along with a salad. It’s terrific plain but you can never go wrong with some sour cream and guacamole on top if you’re feeling fancy. 

Black-eyed pea and hominy casserole | Homesick Texan 

What I enjoy most about this casserole, however, is how well all the ingredients work together. So here for your consideration is a dish for the New Year. And when you share it with your loved ones, not only will there be black-eyed peas and hominy at your table, but some peace and harmony, too. Happy New Year! 

—————- 
Looking for more ideas? Here are some other fun things to make on New Year’s Day: 
New Year’s Day queso compuesto 
Black-eyed peas with bacon and jalapeños 
Smoky black-eyed pea and sausage soup 
New Year’s Day migas with black-eyed peas and bacon 
Good fortune soup with ham and collard greens 
Red posole 
—————- 

 Print 
Black-eyed pea and hominy casserole 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
6 ounces thick-cut bacon 
1/2 medium yellow onion, diced 
2 jalapeños, seeded and diced 
4 cloves garlic, diced minced 
1 10-ounce can tomatoes with green chiles, drained 
1 15-ounce can black-eyed peas, drained 
2 15-ounce cans white hominy, drained 
1/2 cup chopped cilantro, plus more for garnishing 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne 
1 tablespoon lime juice 
8 ounces sour cream 
6 ounces 1 1/2 cups shredded yellow cheddar 
6 ounces 1 1/2 cups shredded Monterey Jack 
Sour cream, for serving (optional) 
Guacamole, for serving (optional) 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 375°F and line a plate with a paper towel. 



In a large cast-iron skillet, cook the bacon on medium-low heat, turning once, until beginning to crisp and the fat has been rendered, about 8-10 minutes. Place the bacon on the paper-towel lined plate and remove all but 1 tablespoon of bacon grease from the skillet (reserving the rest for another use). Add to the skillet the onion and jalapeño, and while occasionally stirring, cook until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for 30 more seconds. 


Turn off the heat. Chop the bacon into 1/2-inch pieces and add it to the skillet along with the tomatoes, black-eyed peas, hominy, cilantro, cumin, salt, cayenne, and lime juice. Taste and adjust seasonings. Stir in the sour cream until well combined, then stir in half of the shredded cheddar and Monterey Jack. Top the casserole with the remaining cheese and bake uncovered for 25-30 minutes or until it’s brown and bubbling. 


Garnish with cilantro and serve warm, either on its own or topped with sour cream and guacamole if you like. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBACON • BLACK-EYED PEAS • CASSEROLE • HOMINY • JALAPENOS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

46 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST 




START RECIPE

Dr Pepper barbecue beans 
BY LISA FAIN 
JUN 30, 2016 
Dr Pepper barbecue beans | Homesick Texan 
“You can eat beans on Saturday night and attend church on Sunday without fear of embarrassment,” said the article. The piece was advising cooks to pour Coke into their beans in order to prevent any lower-gut reactions from occurring when eating said legume. I was intrigued. 

While I’ve made beans with other beverages, including another fizzy one—beer, I can’t say that I’d ever made beans with Coke. As my luck would have it, I spotted a recipe card at the kitchenware store for barbecue beans made with said soda. I picked it up and decided to give it a try. 

The recipe I found was for a more Yankee-style dish, as it not only called for Great Northern beans but there were also no other additions besides garlic, onion, ketchup, and molasses. Since I prefer the meatiness of pinto beans, I decided to cook with those instead. I also threw in some chili powder and smoked paprika along with bacon to give it a more fiery, meaty flavor. And being a Texan, I opted to use Dr Pepper instead of the recommended Coke. 

Dr Pepper barbecue beans | Homesick Texan 

After a quick soak and cooking the beans solo for only 30 minutes as per the recipe’s instructions, I placed them in the slow cooker along with the sauce. Perhaps I had an old batch of beans, but after eight hours the beans were still tough and crunchy, which was disappointing. I find the slow cooker usually works wonders with beans, so I decided there was too much acid in the recipe for them to soften properly. The flavor, however, was promising—a little sweet, a little spicy, and a little smoky. I decided to try it again. 

The next day, I cooked my pintos until they were completely tender before putting them in the slow cooker with the rest of the ingredients. And since I didn’t have to worry about the beans softening, I also splashed in some apple cider vinegar to make the dish even brighter. I cooked the beans overnight and woke up to a savory, inviting scent. 

While my plan was to serve the beans later with hamburgers, I couldn’t wait and for breakfast I enjoyed a bowl of the Dr Pepper barbecue beans. It was an excellent beginning to my day. These beans were a keeper. 

Curious how the recipe would work in the oven, I made another batch. They also turned out good, but there is an advantage to using the slow cooker in the summer. 

Dr Pepper barbecue beans | Homesick Texan 

Now these are not your typical crusty baked beans (though you could certainly lift off the lid and make them that way if you prefer). Instead these are creamier—more like pinto beans in a sauce that’s a little spicy and a little sweet, a dish I’ve had on several occasions at Texas barbecue joints. 

These beans will be welcome at your next backyard gathering, as they make a fine companion to ribs, brisket, or any other smoked or grilled meats. And yes, in case you were wondering, I did indeed discover that by adding Dr Pepper to your beans, you can definitely go anywhere without fear of embarrassment at all. 

 Print 
Dr Pepper barbecue beans 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1 pound dried pinto beans or 3 (15-ounce) cans pinto beans 
1 tablespoon kosher salt 
6 ounces thick bacon 
1/2 medium yellow onion, diced 
5 cloves garlic, minced 
12 ounces Dr Pepper or other dark soda 
1 cup ketchup 
1/4 cup molasses 
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1 teaspoon smoked paprika 
1/2 teaspoon black pepper 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne 
Instructions 
If using dried pinto beans, rinse the beans and place in a 4- or 5- quart Dutch oven. Cover with 2 inches of water and add the salt. Bring the pot to a boil, and let the beans boil for 15 minutes. After this time, cover the pot and turn the heat down to low. Simmer the pot covered for 1 hour and then remove the lid. Continue to simmer the beans until tender and soft, which can take anywhere from 30 more minutes to 1 1/2 hours, depending on the age of the beans. (If the water gets too low, add a little more to the pot). When the beans are tender and soft, drain the beans. 


If using canned pinto beans, simply drain them. 


If using a slow cooker, place the cooked beans into the slow cooker. If using the oven, preheat the oven to 350°F, and place the beans back into the Dutch oven. 


In a skillet, on medium-low heat, cook the bacon about 5 minutes, turning once. You want to render some of the fat from the bacon but leave it undercooked and still floppy. Remove the bacon from the skillet with a slotted spatula, and place on a paper-towel lined plate leaving the rendered fat in the skillet. When cool enough to handle, chop the bacon into 1/2-inch pieces. 


With the skillet still heated on medium-low, add the onion and cook until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for 30 more seconds. Turn off the heat. 


Spoon the onions and garlic over the beans, either in the slow cooker or the Dutch oven, then deglaze the skillet with the Dr Pepper by pouring it into the skillet and then swirling it around while scraping the bottom. Pour the Dr Pepper over the beans. 


Add to the slow cooker or Dutch oven the bacon, ketchup, molasses, apple cider vinegar, chili powder, smoked paprika, black pepper, and cayenne. Stir everything together until well combined then taste and add more salt if needed. 


If cooking in the slow cooker, cook covered on low for 8 hours or high for 6 hours. The beans will be a little soupy so if you prefer a drier consistency, you can remove the lid for the last hour. Because flavors can get muted in the slow cooker, you may want to taste and add more seasonings and perhaps a splash of vinegar at the end to brighten up the dish. 


To cook the beans in the oven, cook covered for 1 hour, then remove the lid and cook uncovered for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, depending on how dry you want your beans. Again, feel free to taste after cooking and adjust the spices and add a splash of vinegar if you like. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBEANS • DR PEPPER 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

22 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Black-eyed peas wth bacon and jalapeños 
BY LISA FAIN 
DEC 30, 2015 
Black-eyed peas wth bacon and jalapeños | Homesick Texan 
There’s a children’s book called “Old Hat New Hat” about a bear who decides he wants a new hat. He goes shopping and tries on quite a few, but whether it’s the color, the shape, or the pattern, there’s always something wrong with his choice. He is persistent, however, so he keeps at it. After much time, he at last finds the hat he seeks. Except the perfect hat for him is the one he was wearing when he arrived at the store. After all his effort, he realizes he had what he wanted all along. 

Now, I can relate. The New Year is approaching and since Texans eat black-eyed peas for good fortune at this time, I’ve been trying to think of a fun dish to share. While I’m always fond of my stand-by pot of black-eyed peas, which is made with bacon and jalapeños, sometimes I want to cook up something fresh and new. 

For example, in past years I’ve made: queso with black-eyed peas: black-eyed pea soup with collards and ham: smoky black-eyed pea and sausage soup: barbecue baked black-eyed peas: and migas with black-eyed peas and bacon. 

Black-eyed peas wth bacon and jalapeños | Homesick Texan 

Because this past year was challenging, the desire to come up with something creative—in order to improve my good fortune—was strong. So after brainstorming a bunch of ideas, I headed to the kitchen and began experimenting with different spices, herbs, meats, and vegetables. 

Each pot was definitely unique, but just not right. I’d eat a bowl then go back and try something new. Since I wasn’t exactly sure what I was looking for, I’d pour more ingredients into the pot thinking it would be an improvement. It never was, but I was persistent. 

Then I made a pot of black-eyed peas with red chile peppers, cinnamon, and vinegar. In theory, it was supposed to taste like chorizo but I got heavy handed with the cinnamon and it tasted, well, wrong. (In case you were wondering, cinnamon and black-eyed peas aren’t really made for each other.) So while I was thankful for the ability to be creative, I decided I’d had enough with odd combinations. It was time to return to an old friend I already knew and loved. 

All my life, my family has cooked their black-eyed peas with bacon. Some like salt pork or ham hocks in their black-eyed peas, but we’ve always been bacon people. Over the years, I’ve embellished on the original by including garlic and jalapeños, and following my mom’s lead with her pinto beans, I finish it off with a splash of jalapeño pickle juice. But those additions aside, this familiar pot of black-eyed peas is my default whenever I get a craving. 

The past year has been educational and I’m grateful for all that I’ve learned. Fortunately, the good memories far outweigh the bad, though some lessons were not easy—for instance, you can be certain I won’t be putting cinnamon in my black-eyed peas anytime soon! But like many things I’m glad I at least gave it a try, as making the effort helped me understand that I already had what I wanted all along. 

Black-eyed peas wth bacon and jalapeños | Homesick Texan 

Best wishes to all of you and may your 2016 be filled with much love, joy, and good fortune! Happy New Year! 

 Print 
Black-eyed peas wth bacon and jalapeños 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
8 ounces slab or thick-cut bacon, diced 
2 to 4 jalapeños, depending on how hot you want it, seeded, stemmed, and diced 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
1 pound dried black-eyed peas 
8 cups water 
1 tablespoon kosher salt 
Pinch cayenne 
1 teaspoon jalapeño pickle juice or vinegar 
Pickled jalapeño slices, for garnishing 
Instructions 
In a Dutch oven or large pot, on medium-low heat cook the bacon while occasionally stirring until some of the fat is rendered and it’s just beginning to crisp, about 5 minutes. 


Add the jalapeños to the pot, and cook for 2 minutes or until they begin to soften. Add the garlic and cook for 30 more seconds. Add the dried black-eyed peas and stir until everything is well combined. 


Pour in the water and add the salt and cayenne. Turn the heat up to high and bring to a boil. Once the pot is boiling, continue to boil for 5 minutes then cover the pot, turn the heat down to low, and gently simmer for 1 and 1/2 hours. 


After this time, remove the lid and test the peas to see where they’re at in terms of tenderness. Continue to cook the peas uncovered until they’re your desired texture, which can take anywhere from 30 minutes to 2 hours, depending on the peas. 


Once the peas are tender, stir in the jalapeño pickle juice then taste and add more salt and pickle juice if desired. Serve warm garnished with pickled jalapeños. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBACON • BLACK-EYED PEAS • JALAPENOS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

25 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST 




START RECIPE

Texas potato salad with nasturtiums 
BY LISA FAIN 
JUN 20, 2017 
Texas potato salad with nasturtiums | Homesick Texan 
There was once a town in North Texas known as Cathron’s Store. In the late 1800s, a grocery, a grist mill, and a post office could be found in this small Lamar County community, though by 1905 the name had changed to Tigertown and Cathron’s Store was no more. Most people, I reckon, have never heard of this place: it is forgotten. But because of a most unusual potato salad recipe by one of its residents, the town and its legacy continue. 

Now, I realize that potato salad may seem an odd subject for contemplation, but Texan-style potato salad—which is typically yellow and tangy with mustard and often mashed to the point where you can’t tell where the potatoes end and the other ingredients begin—is not usually seen outside the state. It’s a unique dish. 

Curious as to its beginnings, I began to do research and delved into a collection of recipes from the 1800s to see how it was made in the state’s early days. Most of the potato salad recipes followed a familiar fashion with hard-boiled eggs, pickles, and onions all bringing color and spark to the dish. Surprisingly, mustard was the preferred dressing even then, and while some recipes were prepared with cubed or sliced potatoes, mashed potatoes were used, too. The potato salad that Texans eat today has deep roots. 

Texas potato salad with nasturtiums | Homesick Texan 

As I was reading, I came across a mashed potato salad by a Texan named Mrs. Lissa Gardner Bowman. She lived in Cathron’s Store. Her version started with leftover potatoes that she mashed and then mixed with the usual suspects. But just when things were becoming predictable, Mrs. Bowman encouraged the cook to go out into the garden and pick some nasturtiums for garnish. Not only was her hometown new to me, but also was her directive to add flowers to one’s potato salad.  

Admittedly, I don’t cook with nasturtiums and I certainly don’t have a garden. But I had to try this unique combination so I headed over to the Union Square Greenmarket to see what I could find. My first stop was at the stand of Windfall Farms, a reliable source of squash blossoms, and to my delight they had a whole cooler full of the brightly colored nasturtium blooms. With a bit of a jig and much jubilation, I bought some flowers and rushed home to recreate the dish. A windfall indeed! 

In my kitchen, I had the rest of the ingredients, which included cucumber pickles, diced onion, and hard-boiled eggs. (Pickled beets were also recommended, but I demurred as I’m not a fan). The original recipe’s dressing was only vinegar, but I augmented that with some melted butter and mustard, a popular combination found in most other Texas potato salad recipes from the late 1800s. Since I’d never tried nasturtiums before, I ate one and was surprised at its peppery bite. It was assertive and strong, a sharp edge to the plain potatoes, so I chopped a handful and mixed them into the salad, too. 

Texas potato salad with nasturtiums | Homesick Texan 

After it all came together, I garnished the salad with more flowers. It was the prettiest potato salad I’d ever seen with a flavor both familiar and new. So, here’s to Cathron’s Store, Mrs. Bowman, and a delicious addition to my side dish repertoire. It’s a joy to have discovered all three. 

 Print 
Texas potato salad with nasturtiums 
Servings 6 
Author Adapted by Lisa Fain from The Journal of Agriculture Cook Book 
Ingredients 
3 pounds russet potatoes 
Salt 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar 
¼ cup yellow mustard 
1/2 cup diced dill pickle 
¼ cup finely diced red onion 
¼ cup finely chopped flat parsley 
3 hard boiled eggs, peeled and finely chopped 
4-6 freshly picked nasturtium blossoms 
Black pepper 
Instructions 
Peel the potatoes then cut into 2-inch pieces. Place the potatoes in a large pot, cover with cold water, bring to a boil on high, then turn the heat down to medium and cook until fork tender, about 10 minutes. Drain and rinse and turn off the heat. 


While still warm, return the potatoes to the pot and add the butter. Mash the potatoes with a masher, leaving a few lumps, then stir the warm potatoes with the butter until the butter is melted. Stir in the apple cider vinegar, mustard, dill pickle, onion, parsley, and eggs. 


Leaving 2 nasturtium blossoms for garnish, finely chop the remaining blossoms then mix into the salad. Taste and add salt and pepper to taste. 


Chill for 4 hours. Garnish with the remaining whole blossoms before serving. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSPOTATO • PRAIRIES AND LAKES • SALAD 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

17 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Gingerbread doughnut muffins 
BY LISA FAIN 
DEC 23, 2014 
Gingerbread doughnut muffins | Homesick Texan 
There’s a doughnut store around the corner from me, and while I’m not usually tempted by their doughnuts (my best strategy is to just look the other way when I walk by their shop), this time of year they sell a gingerbread doughnut that I have been curious about. 

Unfortunately, this doughnut shop has a tendency to sell out of their more popular doughnuts, and by the time I finally gathered the courage to actually go to the shop and get a gingerbread doughnut, they no longer had any on hand. 

Yes, I say courage because this doughnut shop’s doughnuts are all very appealing and yet they’re also very expensive. Whenever I do make it in there I never make it out without spending a small fortune on fried treats. It’s a dangerous place! In any case, because of this, I decided that I would take matters into my own hands. 

Gingerbread doughnut muffins | Homesick Texan 

When I first started blogging almost 10 years ago, doughnut muffins were all the rage. It seemed almost every food blogger at the time was doing some variation of these baked little cakes, but for some reason I never got around to making my own. Well, as Christmas is approaching and I like to have lots of treats on hand for breakfast, I decided that a gingerbread doughnut muffin just might be the way to go.  

Taking King Arthur’s basic recipe, I loaded it with spices from my family’s gingerbread like cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, and yes, of course, ground ginger, while also swapping out some of the sugar for molasses. On the otherhand, while gingerbread recipes usually have you add hot water to the batter, the doughnut muffin recipe called for milk, which I decided to keep for the fluffier texture it would bring. 

The resulting muffin had a crisp top with a tender crumb that was rich with the dark, peppery notes of gingerbread. A final dusting of powdered sugar, much like my favorite cake doughnuts, gave it a perfect finish. 

Gingerbread doughnut muffins | Homesick Texan 

While these gingerbread muffins are excellent on their own, if you want to get super fancy you can load up them with chocolate chips or chopped candied ginger—I’m sure no one would complain. And they’re not only simple to make but they’ll also make your home smell cozy and warm. I like to serve them warm with a cup of coffee or tea, but not matter how you enjoy them I know you’ll agree that they’re a fine way to celebrate the season and the end of the year. 

———— 
Are you looking for other breakfast ideas for the holidays? Allow me to make some suggestions: 
French toast casserole with blueberries and sausage 
Jalapeño and cheese breakfast casserole 
Lemon bread 
Migas with black-eyed peas and bacon 
Orange pecan cinnamon rolls 

———— 

 Print 
Gingerbread doughnut muffins 
Servings 12 muffins 
Author Adapted by Lisa Fain from a King Arthur recipe 
Ingredients 
1/4 cup butter, room temperature 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 
3/4 cup molasses 
1/2 cup light packed brown sugar 
2 large eggs, beaten 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/4 teaspoon baking soda 
1 teaspoon ground ginger 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
Pinch black pepper 
1 cup whole milk 
Powdered sugar 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 425°F and lightly grease 12 regular muffin cups or line them with muffin cups. 


Cream together the butter, oil, molasses, and brown sugar until smooth. Stir in the eggs until well combined. 


Whisk together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, salt, and black pepper. Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredient and mix until the batter just comes together. Pour in the milk and stir until smooth. The batter should look like chocolate frosting. 


Fill the muffin cups just to the top and bake for 15-17 minutes or until a knife inserted into the muffin comes out clean. Dust the tops with powdered sugar. Serve warm. 


Recipe Notes 
Optional add-ins can include 1/4 cup chopped candied ginger, 1/4 cup chopped cranberries, or 1/4 cup chocolate chips. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSDOUGHNUT • GINGER • MUFFINS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

18 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Tomato, cheddar, and bacon biscuits 
BY LISA FAIN 
AUG 21, 2014 

The other morning I was waiting for the cable guy to arrive. I’m sure you know the drill—the cable company gives you a window of time and if you’re not home within that slot then you miss your appointment. And this you don’t want to do as it might take another week for them to send someone to fix your problem. Not to mention, despite everyone’s good intentions the repair guy usually doesn’t arrive until the end of the allotted time. So you’re stuck at home for a while. 

You don’t need me to tell you about waiting for repair people, however, so let’s instead talk about happier things—like this batch of tomato, cheddar, and bacon biscuits. While I was biding my time at home, I had this urge to bake something. That said, because I hadn’t been to the grocery store or the farmers market in a few days, and I couldn’t leave lest I miss the cable guy, I decided to challenge myself and bake with whatever I had available. 

Since I’m always cooking, you’d think that I would usually have a pretty well stocked larder, but this particular morning I didn’t have a whole lot on hand. For instance, it being summer and all, my first inclination had been to make something with fruit, but I realized I’d eaten the last of my blueberries and peaches over the weekend. 

Tomato, cheddar, and bacon biscuits | Homesick Texan 

I was also out of sugar and eggs, which ruled out making cakes and cookies. But I did have plenty of cheese, buttermilk, flour, and grape tomatoes. As I poked around the refrigerator, I spotted some bacon in there, as well. And that’s how I came to bake a batch of tomato, cheddar, and bacon biscuits, which now may be one of my favorite things.  

To make these, I followed my usual recipe for biscuits and then added some chopped grape tomatoes, shredded cheddar cheese, along with cooked and crumbled bacon. For good measure, I added a generous shake of black pepper, as well. 

If you’re a fan of tomato cobblers or tomato pie, then you will love these biscuits. The soft, buttery biscuit is a perfect vehicle for the juicy tomatoes, while the sharp cheddar and smoky, salty bacon adds depth of flavor, as well. That said, if you don’t eat meat, you can leave out the bacon in these biscuits and they will still be very good, as it’s the tomato and the cheddar that are the true stars. 

When my biscuits were fresh from the oven, I scrambled up an egg and made a breakfast sandwich with one while it was still warm. Usually I adorn my breakfast sandwiches with cheese or bacon, but since those items were already in the biscuit, no embellishing was necessary. It was wonderful. 

Tomato, cheddar, and bacon biscuits | Homesick Texan 

Of course, if you’re like me you know that biscuits aren’t just for breakfast and these savory biscuits are no different. They go well with many things, including soups, salads, and fried chicken. Though they can also be enjoyed simply on their own with a generous pat of cold, sweet butter. 

 Print 
Tomato, cheddar, and bacon biscuits 
Servings 8 biscuits 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon black pepper 
1/2 cup 2 ounces shredded cheddar cheese 
1 stick cold butter 
4 slices cooked bacon, chopped 
1/2 cup 2 ounces grape tomatoes, chopped 
3/4 cup buttermilk 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 450°F and grease and lightly flour a baking sheet or a large ovenproof skillet. 


Whisk together the flour, baking powder, salt, and pepper. Stir in the shredded cheddar until well combined. Cut the stick of butter into pieces and work into the flour mixture with your hands or a pastry blender until the flour is crumbly. Stir in the bacon and chopped grape tomatoes. Pour in the buttermilk and then stir until the dough is well combined. It’s okay if the dough is a little sticky. 


Pour the dough out on a floured surface and knead for a minute. Now the dough should be smooth and no longer wet. (You can sprinkle more flour on the surface if you find that it’s sticking.) Roll out the dough until it’s 1/4 of an inch thick and then fold over in half. 


Using a round cutter cut out the biscuits from the folded dough. (You may have to gather the scraps and roll out again if you run out of room while cutting.) Place the cut biscuits on the greased baking sheet close together (so they rise up, not out) and bake for 15 minutes or until the tops are golden brown. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBACON • BISCUITS • CHEDDAR • CHEESE • TOMATO 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

23 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Lemon bread 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAY 9, 2014 

When I first moved to New York, about once or twice a year my mom would send me a loaf of lemon bread. It was my favorite thing. The bread itself is a tender buttery loaf studded with lemon zest and pecans. It’s pleasant enough but not obvious in its charms. But what takes this bread over the top (and makes you reach for slice after slice) is the tangy and sticky glaze, which sweetly shatters with each bite. 

The glaze is made with sugar and lemon juice and it’s generously spread all over the loaf after it’s cooled. The bread then goes into the refrigerator for a spell, which not only allows the bread to absorb some of the juice but also hardens the glaze. Each slice of bread is then sweet and tart with the glaze lending a satisfying crunch. 

While I feel like I’ve been eating this bread all my life, I don’t think that’s the case as the recipe wasn’t passed along to my mom until I was in high school. We were on our way to Baylor for a spring school visit, and we stopped at my great-aunt Mary’s house in Bryan along the way. As we sat at her kitchen table listening to stories about Aunt Mary’s lively days as a Baylor Belle, she passed around slices of the lemon bread for us to enjoy. 

Lemon bread | Homesick Texan 

Perhaps a recipe was exchanged that day or maybe my mom ed for it soon after, but it wasn’t until after that visit that she started making the bread in our own home. The bread is very sweet, so at first it was only served on special occasions, such as Christmas morning. Then she started making it for birthdays but because our family loved it so much, before long there was almost always a loaf in the refrigerator, waiting to be sliced and enjoyed along with a cup of coffee for breakfast.  

When I moved away from Texas, I collected a host of recipes and kitchen tools but I somehow didn’t get a copy of the lemon bread recipe. I told myself it was because you had to be a certain age in order to have the honor of making this very special bread—though I’m not sure if this is true or not. In hindsight, I could have just been saying this only to make the recipe more elusive and interesting in my mind. And since my mom sent me loaves often enough, there was no need to actually bake it myself as there was usually a loaf of lemon bread in my freezer, each slice carefully doled out. 

A few years back my grandma gave me a binder filled with recipes and there it was—the family’s lemon bread. Because I’d lifted the bread to such mythic heights, I was a little surprised that the recipe was given to me without any fanfare. Instead, it was simply tucked into a book. But I didn’t mind, as simply seeing the recipe reminded me of ing my mom and my grandma in the kitchen baking loaf after loaf, coating them in that outrageous glaze, and then wrapping them in foil to either give as gifts or save for future breakfasts at home. 

My family enjoys cooking and some of my fondest memories are of hanging out in the kitchen ing them create something for us to eat. I know I’ve said this before but it’s only because I believe it to be true—one of the finest gifts we can get from our parents and grandparents (and dear friends) are beloved family recipes. So I share this treasured lemon bread, which has brought my family much joy, with you. 

Lemon bread | Homesick Texan 

The important thing, if I haven’t been clear enough, is the glaze. As you mix it together it will appear soupy, but don’t fret. Just place the cooked bread on a sheet of foil, which will catch any that runs off the bread as you spread the glaze onto the loaf. You’ll then wrap up the loaf, place it in the refrigerator, and as the glaze hardens, any that ended up on the foil will find its way onto the bread. You’ll want to serve this bread cool, as that way the glaze will stay crisp. While I like to eat it for breakfast, it’s also a good afternoon snack, and makes for a fine dessert, too. 

 Print 
Lemon bread 
Servings 1 loaf 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the bread: 
1/2 cup buttermilk 
1/4 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 cup 1 stick unsalted butter, room temperature 
1 cup granulated sugar 
2 large eggs, room temperature 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour 
1 heaping tablespoon finely grated lemon zest 
1/2 cup chopped pecans 
Ingredients for the glaze: 
6 tablespoons fresh squeezed lemon juice 
3/4 cups granulated sugar 
Foil 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 350°F and grease and flour a 9×5 bread pan, lining the bottom of the pan with parchment paper or wax paper. 


Stir together the buttermilk and the baking soda and set it aside. Cream together the butter and sugar. Beat together the eggs and slowly add to the creamed butter. Stir in the buttermilk and then slowly add the flour. Mix until a smooth batter is formed. Stir in the lemon zest and the pecans. 


Pour in the batter and bake until a tester comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool the bread in the pan on a rack for 30 minutes. 


As the bread is cooling, mix together the lemon juice and sugar for the glaze. To apply the glaze, tear out a sheet of foil large enough to contain the loaf when wrapped. Remove the loaf from the pan by running a knife along the edges and gently tapping it out onto the sheet of foil. 


Spread the glaze evenly over the top of the loaf and on the sides. Don’t worry that the glaze is runny, just be sure to contain it all when you wrap the bread with the foil. 


Place in the refrigerator for at least 12 hours. Serve cold. It will keep refrigerated for one week and it also freezes well. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSLEMON 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

35 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Orange pecan cinnamon rolls 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAR 19, 2014 
Orange pecan cinnamon rolls | Homesick Texan 
When I was young, my mom was a health food nut. We’re talking a full-on carob, wheat germ, no sugar in your cereal kind of health food nut. It was the 1970s, so it wasn’t that unusual, but still it drove me crazy. I wanted white bread, Fruit Loops, and Tang—not the crunchy, wholesome food products we’d pick up at the natural foods store. Sure, she cooked that way because she loved us, but I wanted to be like everyone else. 

My mom’s do-it-yourself healthy ethos extended to the bread we ate, and it was the rare occasion when there wasn’t dough rising in a bowl or a loaf baking in the oven. (Whole wheat, of course.) Though I’m not complaining—I was a big fan of her homemade bread. Who can resist a warm slice of bread slathered in creamy butter or dipped in honey? 

Now, for my birthday every year she’d make me orange cinnamon rolls. They were a flaky, buttery roll laced with a creamy, citrusy frosting. Our whole family loved them. Of course, there was nothing unusual about my mom making rolls—she baked bread all the time. But here’s the strange thing—these orange cinnamon rolls, loaded with white flour and sugar, were not homemade. Instead, these cinnamon rolls came from a can. It was quite the scandalous treat. 

Orange pecan cinnamon rolls | Homesick Texan 

When I grew older, I began making my own bread. Yet, despite my having no fear when it came to working with yeast, flour, and water, I continued to buy canned orange cinnamon rolls. For some reason, I was afraid to make my own. But one day, I went to pick up a can and the store was out of the orange flavor. If I wanted orange ones, I’d have to bake them myself. This wasn’t a bad thing, as I soon discovered making cinnamon rolls from scratch isn’t terribly complicated. So if you’ve never baked bread or rolls yourself, I highly recommend it. Don’t be afraid! 

First, know that his particular dough, which is infused with orange zest and juice, is a pleasure to work with, and after it rises rolling it out is a cinch. You then cover the dough with butter, cinnamon, sugar, and pecans, roll it up, cut it into rolls, and then let them rise once more before baking. While the rolls bake, you whip together the cream cheese frosting, which you’ll spread onto the rolls while they’re still warm. Besides being patient, I’d say the hardest part of the whole process is trying not to eat the whole batch yourself. 

As you can see, with a little planning you too can have fresh baked orange pecan cinnamon rolls on the table for breakfast. And they will not only taste better than what you buy at the store, but your home will be filled with the inviting aroma of orange, butter, and cinnamon. Make these for your family and I guarantee they will be pleased. 

Orange pecan cinnamon rolls | Homesick Texan 

Since I now know homemade cinnamon rolls are not only easy to make but also taste wonderful, I was curious why my mom—who loved to bake and was so into natural food—had made us canned ones instead. “I bought them because y’all loved them,” she said. “They made you happy.” And like a warm batch of cinnamon rolls fresh from the oven, you can’t  for a better gift than that. 

 Print 
Orange pecan cinnamon rolls 
Servings 14 rolls 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the rolls: 
1 packet active dry yeast 
1/2 cup warm water 
1 1/2 teaspoons orange zest 
1/2 cup freshly squeezed orange juice 
1/4 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 large egg, beaten 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled 
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for kneading 
Ingredients for the filling: 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 teaspoon orange zest 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature 
1 cup chopped roasted pecans 
Ingredients for the frosting: 
4 ounces cream cheese, room temperature 
4 tablespoons butter, room temperature 
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, sifted 
2 tablespoons orange juice 
2 teaspoons orange zest 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
Instructions 
Mix the yeast with the warm water and let it sit for 5 minutes. Stir in the zest, juice, sugar, salt, egg, butter, and 1 cup of the flour. Mix together until a lumpy batter is formed. 


Slowly stir in the remaining flour until a soft, pliable dough is formed. Don’t worry if it’s sticky. Cover and let it rest for 15 minutes. After it’s rested, turn the dough out into a floured surface and knead for 5 minutes or until it’s smooth. Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl, cover, and let it rise until it’s doubled in size, about an hour and a half. 


Grease two 9-inch round pans, two cast-iron skillets, as I sometimes use. (You can also use a 9×13 baking pan.) On a floured surface, roll out the risen dough into a large rectangle, about 14×9 inches, with the long side facing you. For the filling, mix together the sugar, cinnamon, and zest. Spread the butter on the dough right up to the edges, and then evenly sprinkle the cinnamon mixture and pecans over the butter. 


Starting on one of the long sides, roll up the dough to the end and then pinch the ends to seal. Cut off 1-inch slices from the rolled dough, and then place sliced the rolls in the greased baking dishes. Cover and let them rise for an hour. About 15 minutes before they’re done with the second rise, preheat the oven to 375 °F. 


Bake the rolls uncovered until the tops are golden brown, about 15 minutes. While the rolls are baking, make the frosting by creaming together the cream cheese, butter, and powdered sugar until smooth. Stir in the juice, zest, vanilla and salt. Spread the frosting onto the rolls while they are still warm. 


Serve immediately. You can store them covered and refrigerated for a few days, though they are best eaten the day they are baked. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCINNAMON • ORANGE • PECANS • ROLLS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

38 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

New Year’s Day Migas with black-eyed peas and bacon 
BY LISA FAIN 
DEC 30, 2013 
New Year's Day Migas | Homesick Texan 
Migas for breakfast are welcome anytime, but I have especially fond memories of eating them with friends in Austin as our first meal of the New Year. 

When I was younger, no matter where I happened to be living in Texas, it always seemed that I ended up in Austin for New Year’s Eve. So naturally, on New Year’s Day, my friends and I would go out for breakfast and enjoy big platters of migas along with fluffy flour tortillas and refried beans. 

This year, I’ll be in New York and sadly I have to admit I haven’t had migas on New Year’s Day for a long time now. Why is this, I wondered? Even though I’m in a place where I can’t easily go to a restaurant and get my fix, there’s no reason why I can’t whip up a batch of migas at home. 

New Year's Day Migas | Homesick Texan 

Now, there are as many ways to make migas as there are stars in the sky—the possibilities are almost endless. That said, there are two things that define all migas and this is the presence of scrambled eggs and tortillas. While usually people do add other things to their eggs, such as chile peppers, onions, tomatoes, and cheese, if there are not tortillas in the eggs, then they’re not migas—they’re simply some other type of egg scramble.  

(If you’re not familiar with migas, you may be thinking they sound like chilaquiles, and they are indeed similar, but chilaquiles are fried tortilla chips in salsa, not eggs, which is the main difference between the two. While you can add eggs to chilaquiles, it’s the chips in the salsa that define: likewise, you can add salsa to your migas but it’s the eggs with tortillas that define this particular dish.) 

Because there is so much latitude with migas, which means crumbs in Spanish, I decided to play around with my usual version and make a special edition for New Year’s Day. This, of course, meant there would be black-eyed peas involved since that’s what many Texans eat in the New Year to ensure good fortune. And pork is also supposed to help make the year a fine one, so I added plenty of smoky bacon to my eggs, as well. 

At first, I simply threw in a handful of cooked black-eyed peas to my eggs, along with the bacon and tortillas. The bacon and tortillas were fine, but the peas got lost in the scramble and seemed a bit off to me. It just didn’t work. I decided to persevere, however, and decided instead of cooking the migas with the black-eyed peas, I’d try serving them on top of the scrambled eggs in a Texas-caviar style salsa. 

After one bite, I realized this was the way to go. When the peas were cooked in the eggs along with the other vegetables, such as jalapeños, onions, and tomatoes, everything sort of blended together and got lost. But when the vegetables were allowed to stay crisp and bright with some spices and lime juice, they balanced out the rich, cheesy eggs gussied up with bacon and fried tortillas. It was a fine dish and would make a welcome start to any day—New Year’s or otherwise. 

New Year's Day Migas | Homesick Texan 

While the past year was a busy and productive one, I’m very excited for 2014! I already have a few trips to Texas planned, and my new book will be here in the spring. And may your 2014 be filled with much good fortune, love, joy, and good food. 

Happy New Year! 

 Print 
New Year’s Day migas with black-eyed pea salsa and bacon 
Servings 6 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Oil for frying 
4 corn tortillas, preferably at least a day old 
1 1/2 cups cooked black-eyed peas, , drained or 1 (15-ounce) can black-eyed peas, drained 
1 cup grape tomatoes, diced 
2 jalapeños, seeded and diced 
1/4 medium yellow onion, diced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1/4 cup chopped cilantro 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon black pepper 
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 tablespoon olive oil 
1 tablespoon lime juice 
8 large eggs 
1/4 cup room temperature water 
8 slices cooked bacon, crumbled 
1 cup 4 ounces shredded pepper jack 
Salsa, for serving 
Guacamole, for serving 
Warm flour tortillas, for serving 
Instructions 
To make the fried tortilla strips, first cut the tortillas into strips, about 1/2-inch wide and 1 1/2-inches long. Pour 1/4-inch of oil into a large skillet and heat on medium high to 350°F, about 5 minutes. If you don’t have a thermometer, you can test the temperature by sticking a wooden spoon into the oil. If it bubbles around the spoon, it should be ready for frying. Line a large plate or sheet with paper towels. 


Working in batches, gently slide the tortilla strips into the oil and fry for about 45 seconds, turning once, or until lightly brown and crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on the paper towel-lined plate. Repeat until all the strips are fried. 


Turn off the heat and when cool enough to handle, drain and discard all but 2 tablespoons of oil from the skillet. 


To make the black-eyed pea salsa, stir together the black-eyed peas, tomatoes, jalapeños, onion, garlic, cilantro, olive oil, lime juice, salt, black pepper, and cumin until well combined. Taste and adjust seasonings. 


To make the eggs, whisk together the eggs, water, and bacon. Lightly salt and pepper the eggs, about 1/4 teaspoon of each. Return the skillet with the oil back to the stove and heat on medium-low heat. Pour in the eggs, and allow to cook without stirring for 1 minute. Gently stir the eggs a couple of times and then sprinkle evenly on top of the eggs the fried tortilla strips and the cheese. Gently stir once and then allow the eggs to cook until set to your preference, about 2-3 minutes. 
Remove the eggs from the heat and top with the black-eyed peas. Serve with salsa, guacamole, and warm flour tortillas on the side. 


Recipe Notes 
To save time, you could use crushed tortilla chips instead of frying your corn tortillas. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBACON • BLACK-EYED PEAS • EGGS • TORTILLAS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

19 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Apple jalapeño jam 
BY LISA FAIN 
SEP 25, 2013 
Apple jalapeno jam | Homesick Texan 
Apple jalapeño jam—what could be better in the fall? Though I have to admit that this jar of spreadable apples made warm and lively with cinnamon and jalapeños only came about due to a bout of laziness. Allow me to explain. 

On cool fall mornings, I wake up craving warm slices of crunchy toast, slathered in soft butter and sweet jam. Usually I have plenty of jam on hand, as making it is one of favorite summertime activities. Plus, the jars are fun to give to people at Christmas. Who doesn’t like a jar of something sweet and homemade? 

For some reason, however, I didn’t make any jam this summer. I was overwhelmed with work and at the end of the day, the last thing I wanted to do was stand in front of the stove stirring a pot. Though by the time I realized the folly in my thinking, the cherries and berries were long gone. It was now time for fall fruits, such as apples, to shine. 

One of my favorite memories is putting up apples with my grandmother. She has a tree that in some years is quite abundant, and she’ll pack jar after jar with fresh sliced fruit. While these apples are delicious, they are not spreadable. But what if I made an apple jam instead? 

Apple jalapeno jam | Homesick Texan 

Now, for some reason, apples are usually transformed into jellies not jams. The difference between the two is that jellies are made from strained juice, whereas jams still contain the fruit. I prefer the chunkier nature of jams, though when I set about making an apple jam as opposed to an apple jelly, it appeared to be not as common.  

To make my jam, I consulted both my usual method and also looked at recipes by Marisa McClellan and Sarabeth Levine, who both advised adding the sugar after the apples had cooked for a while, which would insure that the fruit would break down and become soft and not stay solid as the jam came together. This was good advice. Though I veered from their techniques by throwing in some jalapeños, as there are still plenty of those at the market still. And for acidity, I decided to use apple cider vinegar instead of lemon juice. 

This might have been the quickest jam I’ve ever made. The jam was complete in about 30 minutes. I’m not sure why, though I suppose it probably has something to do with the apples’ high levels of pectin, the agent that adheres with the sugar and makes the jam thicken and set. I made another batch, and again, it came together quickly. If you’re not a fan of standing in front of the stove for hours, this is the jam for you. 

Apple jalapeno jam | Homesick Texan 

As I suspected, apple jalapeño jam is terrific on toast. But because it’s both sweet and spicy, you can also spoon it over a block of cream cheese and serve it with crackers. Or if you want to make your lunch a little more fancy, I highly recommend spreading it onto a buttery grilled cheese sandwich, preferably one made with a sharp cheddar or a nutty Gruyere. Though no matter what you do with it, I do think that you’ll agree with me that apple jalapeño jam is a wonderful way to celebrate the fall. 

 Print 
Apple jalapeño jam 
Servings 5 1/2 pints 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
2 1/2 pounds baking apples, such as Granny Smith or Cortland, peeled, cored, and cut into 1/2-inch dice 
2 to 4 jalapeños, seeded and diced 
1 cup water 
1/4 cup apple cider vinegar 
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar 
1/2 cup brown sugar 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
Instructions 
Sterilize 5 half-pint jars and their lids. Place a plate in the freezer. 
Add the apples, jalapeños, water, and apple cider vinegar to a non-reactive sauce pot. Bring to a boil and then turn the heat down to low and simmer uncovered, while occasionally stirring, until the apples are soft, about 10 minutes. If the liquid gets too low during this process, you can add more water a tablespoon at a time. 


Once the apples are soft, stir in the granulated sugar, the brown sugar, the cinnamon, and the salt. As you stir, mash the apples against the side of the pot with the back of your spoon. Alternatively, you can use a potato masher. You can make it as chunky or mashed as you like. For instance, I prefer mine to leave a few apple chunks in my jam for texture. Continue to cook the jam for 20 minutes, while occasionally stirring. 


After about 20 minutes, take the plate out of the freezer and place a spoonful of the jam on the plate. After about 15 seconds, tilt the plate and if the jam doesn’t run then it’s ready. If it does run, continue to cook it while occasionally stirring for 5 more minutes and then check again. Continue to cook and test until it doesn’t run. 


Pour jam into hot, sterile jars leaving a bit of headspace. Cover with lid and rings. Allow to cool and then refrigerate. I find that it can last for a month in the refrigerator. Alternatively, you can process in a boiling water bath for 10 minutes. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSAPPLE • FRUIT • JALAPENOS • JAM 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

40 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Corned beef hash with chipotle chiles and Irish bacon 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAR 14, 2013 
Corned beef hash with chipotle chiles and Irish bacon | Homesick Texan 
When I lived in Austin, I worked with a woman who loved to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day. She was a quiet lady and I was a little surprised at her enthusiasm. But she explained that her husband, a doctor with Irish roots, was continuing his family’s long tradition of having a corned beef supper. 

As she described her gathering, it sounded so genteel and elegant—the opposite of what I had come to expect from St. Patrick’s Day. But as lovely as that evening was, she said her favorite part was the morning after. “We take the leftovers and make corned beef hash,” she said. “It makes for a fine breakfast.” 

Now, corned beef hash wasn’t in my regular rotation. Matter of fact, I didn’t even try it for the first time until I was an adult. Growing up I’d been familiar with the dish, but my impression was that it was a strange canned food and something to be avoided. 

Corned beef hash with chipotle chiles and Irish bacon | Homesick Texan 

Soon after my conversation with my co-worker, I found myself visiting an old Texan friend in Northern California. We went out for breakfast one morning and she ordered the corned beef hash. As I was mulling over the menu she suggested I follow her lead. When I expressed my doubts she said, “It’s brisket and potatoes. You’ll like it.”  

And she was correct. So it’s curious it’s taken me so long to revisit the dish, especially as it’s frequently seen on New York diner menus. This week, however, I decided to pursue it when my butcher had freshly brined briskets on hand. (Though in the future, I would like to make my own corned beef from scratch.) 

Making corned beef hash is not difficult. You simply take cooked corned beef, potatoes, onions, garlic, and peppers and cook them all together. The hardest part is the chopping, though you could certainly use a food processor to make the job even simpler. Most recipes call for bell pepper, but I substituted chipotle chiles instead. And to make it even more lively, I also threw in some smoky Irish bacon. It was a good decision. 

After the hash comes together, it’s typically topped with an egg. I followed suit, though I also added some chopped cilantro and then served it with flour tortillas. Biscuits or Irish soda bread would be a good choice, too. 

Corned beef hash with chipotle chiles and Irish bacon | Homesick Texan 

For some, St. Patrick’s Day is the sort of day where you might not feel too good the morning after. In this case, a hearty breakfast can be good medicine. And if you have leftover corned beef, this spicy, satisfying hash is just what the doctor ordered. 

 Print 
Corned beef hash with chipotle chiles and Irish bacon 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1 large Russet potato, peeled and diced into 1/4″ cubes 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil or bacon grease, divided 
1/2 medium yellow onion, diced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 or 2 chipotle chiles in adobo, finely chopped 
2 cups about 3/4 pound cooked corned beef, finely diced 
4 slices Irish bacon, diced 
Salt 
Pepper 
Chopped cilantro, for garnishing 
4 large eggs 
Warmed flour tortillas, for serving 
Instructions 
Place the potatoes in a pot and cover with water. On medium heat, bring the pot to a boil and then boil for 3 minutes. Drain and rinse the potatoes. 




In a large skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil on medium-low heat. Add the onion and cook until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and chipotle chile and cook for 30 more seconds. Stir in the potatoes and while stirring occasionally, cook until they are tender and just beginning to crisp, about 5-7 minutes. 


Add to the skillet the diced corned beef and diced Irish bacon. While occasionally stirring, cook until the corned beef and bacon are warm, fragrant, and well combined with the potatoes, about 3-5 minutes. Taste and add salt and pepper. Garnish with chopped cilantro and remove from the heat. 


Meanwhile, in another skillet, heat up the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil and working in batches, fry 4 eggs to your desired preference. (I tend to work both skillets at once, but if you want to make the eggs after the hash, you can reheat the hash before serving if it gets cold). To serve the hash, top with fried eggs and serve with warm tortillas. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBACON • BEEF • CHIPOTLE • EGGS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

31 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Banana, bacon, and pecan pancakes 
Bananas, bacon, and pecans take these buttermilk pancakes over the top. 

BY LISA FAIN 
FEB 11, 2013 
There are many ways to say I love you, and in my family, some folks have decided that pancakes are the way to show they care. 

First there was my grandfather, who you’d find every Saturday flipping fat fluffy pancakes stuffed with blueberries and pecans. Then there’s my uncle and his famous Mexican pancakes, a concoction so outrageous that he’s been known to travel with a special skillet that’s used especially for these large pancakes loaded with pineapple and coconut. My brother has also taken to making pancakes, and on Christmas morning the family visited in the kitchen as he made stack after stack after stack. 

Pancakes and love have been on my mind this week, as it’s not only the first week of Lent but Valentine’s Day is happening, too. 

Banana bacon pecan pancakes | Homesick Texan 

Shrove Tuesday, which in England is known as Pancake Tuesday, is that last hurrah before Lent begins. Of course, Shrove Tuesday is also known as Mardi Gras. And growing up in Houston, which is close to Galveston and New Orleans, two places rich with Mardi Gras traditions, I always felt a little strange spending that particular Tuesday hanging out in my church’s parish hall eating pancakes instead.  

A few years ago, however, some British friends of mine were adamant about celebrating Shrove Tuesday and we emptied our refrigerators and pantries and came up with all sorts of crazy pancakes, both savory and sweet. It might not have been a parade down Bourbon Street, but it was still pretty wild. 

The spirit of that evening lived on recently, as I found myself with too many bananas. While my first thought was to make banana bread, I decided that banana pancakes sounded far superior. And as I was already frying up some bacon, I figured I’d chuck a few pieces of it into the batter. Then a little research lead me to a Bon Appetit recipe for a caramel banana topping, which I dolled up with even more bacon along with some fresh pecans for a bit of crunch, too. 

Banana bacon pecan pancakes | Homesick Texan 

Sweet, smoky, salty, and nutty. These are tremendous pancakes. You could certainly eat a stack on Shrove Tuesday and feel like you’ve indulged quite a bit. Though they also make for a fine special day breakfast. And whoever is lucky enough to eat them will know immediately how you feel, as these banana, bacon, and pecan pancakes are a perfect way to show you care. 

 Print 
Banana, bacon, and pecan pancakes 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the topping: 
1/2 cup unsalted butter 
1 cup brown sugar 
1/2 cup water 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon 
2 bananas, peeled and sliced into 1/4-inch rounds 
1/2 cup pecans 
4 slices cooked bacon, crumbled 
Salt 
Ingredients for the pancakes: 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 1/2 cups buttermilk 
1 large egg beaten 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1 banana, peeled and mashed 
2 slices cooked bacon, crumbled 
1 tablespoon butter, room temperature, divided 
Instructions 
To make the topping, in a pot, on medium heat melt the butter, brown sugar, and water. When it comes to a boil, after about a minute, continue to boil for 1-2 more minutes or until it’s slightly thicker and syrupy. Turn off the heat and stir in the vanilla, cinnamon, bananas, pecans, and bacon. Add a sprinkle of salt to taste. 


For the pancakes, mix together the flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt. Beat together the buttermilk, egg, vanilla, and oil and pour into the flour mixture. Add the mashed banana and crumbled bacon, and stir until a thick batter is formed. 


Preheat the oven to 200°F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Heat a skillet on medium and add a dab of the softened butter to the skillet to grease it. Pour 1/4 cup of the batter into the skillet and cook for a about 2 minutes on one side, until the edges are slightly set and bubbles begin to form in batter. Gently flip the pancake and cook on the other side a couple more minutes or until an inserted toothpick comes out clean. Place cooked pancake in the oven, and continue for the rest of the batter, adding a dab of butter to grease the skillet when necessary. 


To serve, stack 3-4 pancakes on each plate and cover with the topping. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBACON • BANANA • PANCAKES • PECANS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

30 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Blueberry lime oatmeal muffins and a new cookbook 
BY LISA FAIN 
AUG 7, 2012 

The other day my grandma ed me, “What have you been doing with yourself lately?” She had noticed it’s been quiet on the blog this summer and I told her I’d been taking it easy—it’s summertime after all. Though that’s not exactly the truth, as I’ve been in the kitchen quite a bit lately. For instance, I spent a good chunk of time last week satisfying a slight obsession with blueberry lime oatmeal muffins. 

Do you ever get fixated on a thought and can’t let it go? That’s how I’ve been feeling about said muffins, ever since I dreamt that I wanted to bake a batch. In my dream, I was hanging out with my agent and while she wanted me to sign some papers, I insisted it was more important for me to bake muffins instead. 

Now, this dream did indeed come from a logical place. One, I’ve spent lots of time this summer organizing my family’s recipes and food stories for an upcoming project. And not only was my great-grandmother renown for her oatmeal bread, but my mom also makes these incredible muffins stuffed with fresh blueberries. Obviously, my subconscious mind thought it was only natural to combine the two in some way. 

Blueberry lime oatmeal muffins | Homesick Texan 

Then there’s the part of the dream that has to do with my agent and legal papers. Yes, this is also a reflection of my real life as I’ve been offered a book deal for my second cookbook. But enough about me, let’s get back to the muffins. 

Usually during the summer, I can’t be bothered to turn on my oven. These days, however, I’m a very early riser and there’s nothing quite like eating a fresh blueberry muffin. While they’re good on their own or with a pat of soft butter, they also make for a terrific breakfast sandwich when stuffed with scrambled eggs and sausage. The latter is even hearty enough to keep my stomach occupied until at least mid morning: it’s a good beginning to a busy day. 

These muffins are simple. They’re just my basic oatmeal muffins stuffed with fresh blueberries. I also add some lime zest for brightness and a bit of cinnamon, nutmeg and vanilla for spice. But my favorite thing about these muffins is how the berries get soft and juicy after their time in the oven. There’s a chance that they might even squirt on your shirt or your chin when you take a bite, but I find that’s a risk well worth taking. 

What’s that? You’re not all that interested in baking and want to hear more about my second cookbook. Well, I believe that if you loved my first cookbook, I know you’ll love this one, too. There will be plenty of new recipes, stories and photos. And as my first cookbook was a celebration of Texan cuisine, this one will also praise the diversity of Texas food. 

That said, there’s a Texan saying that there are no strangers in Texas, just friends you haven’t met. This makes sense as the word Texas hails from the Caddo word for friends. And Texans, being friendly folks and all, love to share meals and get together. Our food is a way of connecting with each other and connecting with home. So in that spirit—besides showcasing Texan comfort food—my second cookbook will also celebrate the friendly folks of Texas and the importance of gathering at the table with those that you love. 

Blueberry lime oatmeal muffins | Homesick Texan 

Thank you for reading and your support. And go bake these muffins and share them with family and friends. You’ll enjoy them and I’m guessing they’ll make someone else’s morning a little bit brighter, too. 

 Print 
Blueberry lime oatmeal muffins 
Servings 12 muffins 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1 cup quick-cooking oats 
1 cup sour cream 
4 tablespoons butter 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 
2 large eggs, beaten 
1/2 granulated sugar 
1/4 cup brown sugar 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1 tablespoon lime zest 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 cup fresh or frozen blueberries 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 400° F and lightly grease 12 regular muffin cups or line them with muffin cups. 


Stir together the oats and sour cream and allow to sit for five minutes to soften the oats. Meanwhile, on low heat melt the butter and then remove from the heat. 


Mix well with the oats the melted butter, oil, beaten eggs, granulated sugar, brown sugar, vanilla extract and lime zest. In a separate bowl, stir together the flour, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg and salt. Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredient and mix until the batter just comes together. You don’t want to over work the batter as this will affect the muffin’s rising in the oven so it’s okay if it’s lumpy. Gently stir in the blueberries (if using frozen, do not thaw them first). 


Fill the muffin cups 3/4 full and bake for 20-25 minutes or until lightly browned on top and when a knife inserted into the muffin comes out clean. Serve warm. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBLUEBERRY • LIME • MUFFINS • OATMEAL 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

50 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Peach jalapeño jam 
BY LISA FAIN 
JUL 13, 2012 
Peach jalapeno jam | Homesick Texan 
Texans love their peaches. I’d say that this love ranks right up there along with bluebonnets, barbecue, cheese enchiladas and football. And for good reason, as Texan peaches are the best. I’ve always assumed everyone knew this, but the other day when I handed a jar of peach jalapeño jam to someone from the East Coast, she ed, “Do peaches grow in Texas?” Surprised, I quickly nodded my head and said yes. 

Now, as Texans enjoy being competitive with each other, you’ll find there are those that say the Hill Country town of Fredericksburg has the sweetest, juiciest peaches. And then there are those that prefer the peaches grown in Fairfield and East Texas. But as for me, my favorite peaches are the ones grown at my grandma’s farm. 

The other day she called me and told me she was having a good year with her bounty. Though it isn’t always this way, as one year they were terribly tart and another year some hungry critter crawled up in the tree and ate all the peaches in the middle of the night. But this year has been successful, which means her visitors are probably getting their fill of homemade peach pies and cobblers. 

Peach jalapeno jam | Homesick Texan 

Of course, peaches aren’t available year round, so there’s nothing better than preserving your fruit for a taste of summer when the light is limited and the days are cold. Grandma likes to freeze hers to insure we’ll have enough to make a peach pie at Thanksgiving. But one of my favorite methods of preserving this taste of summer is by making jam.  

If you’ve never made jam, it can be intimidating. However, there’s no need to be afraid because if you can stand in front of a pot and stir, then you can make jam. It’s that simple. 

For this recipe, you simply macerate some peach slices in sugar, bring to a boil and then simmer until the jam comes together. There’s lemon juice added for pectin and because I’m a Texan, I like to throw in a jalapeño to my peach jam to give it a little kick. While I’m sure there’s a more scientific way to ascertain if the jam is ready, I test mine by spooning some on a frozen plate. And when it doesn’t run, I know it’s done. 

Peach jalapeno jam | Homesick Texan 

It will keep in the refrigerator for a month or so, and I love eating mine immediately, on everything from biscuits to pork chops. But if you process it in a water bath, you can also enjoy your peach jalapeño jam later this year. 

I know that it’s hard to imagine chilly days right now when it’s blistering hot outside, but they will arrive. And if you’re looking for a little warmth, take a bite of peach jalapeño jam and you’ll be reminded of lazy summer afternoons. 

 Print 
Peach jalapeño jam 
Servings 2 pints 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
2 1/2 pounds peaches 
2 cups granulated sugar 
1/4 cup lemon juice 
2 jalapeños,seeded and diced 
Special equipment: 
2 pint-size jars or 4 half-pint sized jars with lids and bands 
Instructions 
To peel the peaches, bring a pot of water to a boil. Cut an X at the top and the base of the fruit and then boil the peaches for 1 minute. Remove the peaches with a slotted spoon from the water and transfer to a bowl filled with ice water to stop them from cooking. Once cool enough to handle, gently rub off the skins. Cut into into 1/4-inch thick slices, discarding the pit. 


Toss the peach slices in a non-reactive saucepot with the sugar and macerate for 1-2 hours or until the sugar has dissolved and the peaches are soft and juicy. Meanwhile, sterilize the jars and lids in either a pot of boiling water or the dishwasher. 


Once the peaches have macerated, it’s time to make the jam. First, place a plate in the freezer. Then, stir in the lemon juice and the diced jalapeño to the peaches. Place the saucepot on the stove and turn the heat to high. Bring the pot to a boil and then turn the heat down to low, stirring occasionally. (Don’t worry if there’s foam on top of the jam. While some advise to skim it, I leave it and find it doesn’t affect the jam.) 


After 40 minutes, take the plate out of the freezer and place a spoonful of the jam on the plate. After a minute, tilt the plate and if the jam doesn’t run then it’s ready. If it does run, continue to cook it while occasionally stirring for 5 more minutes and then check again. Continue to cook and test until it doesn’t run. 


Pour jam into hot, sterile jars leaving a bit of headspace. Cover with lid and rings. Allow to cool and then refrigerate. I find that it can last for a few months in the refrigerator. 


Alternatively, you can place the covered jars in a canning pot or stockpot, cover the jars with water, bring to a boil and then cook on high for 10 minutes. Remove the jars with tongs and then allow to cool. If you are processing this way, make sure that your lids have never been used before, as they will only seal once. These jars will not require refrigeration until after opening. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHILES • JALAPENOS • JAM • PEACHES • SUMMER 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

72 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Chocolate-cherry scones with cinnamon-orange butter 
BY LISA FAIN 
FEB 9, 2012 
Chocolate-cherry scones | Homesick Texan 
Sometimes you get a craving. For me, it was a slice of chocolate-cherry bread, that sweet yeasty loaf from Central Market riddled with chunks of bittersweet chocolate and tart, juicy berries. When I lived in Austin, it was a favorite of mine and while I’ve had other chocolate breads since, there’s something about their version that’s uniquely addictive. 

It was summer and fortunately a trip to Houston was planned. When I arrived, I immediately visited Central Market so I could reacquaint myself with this long-favored bread. Now, it had been a while since I had bought a loaf, but I was surprised when I went to the bread department and couldn’t find it. I ed the baker about its whereabouts and he said, “Come back tomorrow—we should have it then.” 

The next day, I returned to the store and went to the bakery. Again, I didn’t see the bread. I ed the baker about it and he repeated what he had told me the day before. “Come back tomorrow—we’ll definitely have it then.” 

Chocolate-cherry scones | Homesick Texan 
 
I was scheduled to return to New York the next day, but before I left, I dropped by the store one last time to see if they had the chocolate-cherry bread. And sadly, it wasn’t there. A different baker was working and I ed him why they didn’t have it. He told me that it was a special bread only sold around Christmas and Valentine’s and if I wanted a loaf I should return during those holidays. 

This was news to me. When I lived in Austin it seemed they always had it on offer along with free samples that helped foster my affection for it. Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to go home for Christmas this year, so I attempted to recreate what I remembered about the bread back in New York City. 

Making chocolate yeast bread seemed simple in theory, yet after trying several recipes none of them had the deep chocolate flavor I remember from the Central Market loaf. It was frustrating. But while making a batch of biscuits, I had an idea. I threw in some cocoa powder, bumped up the sugar, stirred in some chocolate and dried sour cherries just to see what would happen. And the resulting chocolate-cherry biscuits, or scones if you prefer, were extremely satisfying. 

The scones were tender yet rich, warm with chocolate and bright with cherries. Finished with a sprinkle of raw sugar for crunch, these scones might not have been the exact bread that I remembered but they were just what I wanted. 

Now, I will admit that these are a bit decadent as an everyday food, but they’re perfect for special winter mornings, especially when slathered with cinnamon-orange butter. (Chocolate gravy would also be good.) And if you’re looking for a special way to show someone you love them, I can’t think of a better way than starting their day with a plate of chocolate-cherry scones, warm from the oven. 


My work has me visiting Texas on Valentine’s Day this year, so perhaps I’ll finally get to eat the chocolate cherry bread that I remember. But if for some reason I still can’t find it, I’m fine as these chocolate cherry scones may be a bit different, but they are just as good. 

 Print 
Chocolate-cherry scones with cinnamon-orange butter 
Servings 12 scones 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the chocolate cherry scones: 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1/3 cup cocoa powder 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
1/3 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
8 tablespoons 1 stick well-chilled butter, cut into pieces 
3/4 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips 
3/4 cup dried cherries 
1 tablespoon orange zest 
3/4 cup half-and-half 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
Raw sugar and powdered sugar for sprinkling 
Ingredients for the cinnamon-orange butter: 
8 tablespoons 1 stick unsalted butter, softened 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 tablespoon orange zest 
2 teaspoons brown sugar 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 425° F and grease a baking sheet or a 10-inch cast-iron skillet. 



Mix together the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, sugar, salt and cinnamon. Cut the stick of butter into pieces, and work into the flour mixture with your hands or a pastry blender until it resembles pea-sized crumbs. 


Stir in the chocolate chips, dried cherries and orange zest. Pour in the half-and-half and vanilla extract and mix until a shaggy dough is formed. The dough should be slightly sticky but manageable. 


For neater scones, roll the dough out on a non-stick surface until it’s 1/4-inch thick and fold over. Using a cutter, (can use a glass or a cup if don’t have a biscuit cutter) cut out the scones from the dough. Roll out remaining scraps and repeat the process. Alternatively, you can simply spoon hand-sized balls of dough onto the greased sheet or skillet. 


Sprinkle the tops with the raw sugar and bake until lightly brown, about 15 minutes or until the edges are firm and an inserted toothpick comes out clean. While the scones are baking, make the cinnamon-orange butter by stirring together the butter, cinnamon orange zest and brown sugar until well combined. When scones are done, serve warm with the cinnamon orange butter. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHOCOLATE • DRIED CHERRIES • ORANGE • SCONES 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

45 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Chilaquiles with ancho tomatillo salsa 
BY LISA FAIN 
DEC 7, 2011 

When I first moved to New York, one of the dishes that was lacking was migas. That Texan breakfast staple of eggs scrambled with fried tortillas, along with a host of other good things such as cheese and chiles, was nowhere to be found. 

Then one day a friend called and said, “I’ve found migas! This Mexican restaurant is calling them chilaquiles, but if you close your eyes you won’t tell the difference.” 

Desperate for a migas fix, the next morning I hopped on the train and met him for breakfast at his local Mexican joint. We ordered the chilaquiles and were presented with scrambled eggs tossed with fried tortillas coated in a bright salsa verde. My friend was correct—they were very similar to our beloved migas and we ate them with gusto and joy. 

Chilaquiles with ancho tomatillo salsa | Homesick Texan 

Chilaquiles (pronounced chee-la-kee-lays), to those who’ve never had them, are fried tortilla strips or wedges that have been simmered in salsa. As the fried tortillas cook, they absorb the salsa and impart it with its toasted corn flavor until the two become meshed into one. You know when you get to the bottom of the cereal bowl and the cereal has absorbed some of the milk and the milk tastes like cereal? Yep, chilaquiles are kind of wonderful like that—though hopefully not as soggy. 

Now, sometimes other things can join the party, such as sliced chicken, shredded beef or even scrambled eggs, the latter of which causes people to think that migas and chilaquiles are the same. 

But they’re not. 

Chilaquiles with ancho tomatillo salsa | Homesick Texan 

Here’s the deal. In Texas, Migas are always fried tortilla pieces with scrambled eggs. (The term migas in Spanish means “little crumbs,” which is why in Spain there is a dish called migas that is made with bread crumbs. But we’re talking Tex-Mex here!) It’s the tortillas and eggs that define migas and without the two you just don’t have that dish. 

On the other hand, chilaquiles are nothing without fried tortilla pieces and salsa—it’s the tortillas simmering and soaking in the salsa that defines this dish. The word itself derives from a Nahuatl term that means “in a sauce of chile peppers.” 

One of the salsas I like to use is an ancho-tomatillo salsa, which I love for its earthy and tangy tones. Of course, you can use any salsa for chilaquiles—red or green. And if you’re feeling especially festive this time of year, you can make two batches of chilaquiles—one with a red salsa and one with a salsa verde and put them on the same plate. 

Chilaquiles are intended to get rid of your day-old tortillas, so you’ll want to use stale tortillas, as they’ll absorb more of the salsa. Though if you don’t want to mess with frying tortillas, in a pinch I’ve known people to throw in some stale tortilla chips instead. I also find chilaquiles are a perfect vehicle for leftover chicken, which I often add to make a heartier dish. 

Chilaquiles with ancho tomatillo salsa | Homesick Texan 

People tell me they are starting to see migas on New York breakfast menus, which is a good thing. Though this would never stop me from eating chilaquiles, as the two are completely different and equally wonderful. And if you’re a fan of migas and have never tried chilaquiles, I know you’ll love them, too. 

 Print 
Chilaquiles with ancho-tomatillo salsa 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the ancho-tomatillo salsa: 
1 ancho chile, stem and seeds removed 
1/2 pound tomatillos, husks removed or one 11-ounce can, drained 
2 cloves garlic 
1 cup water 
Salt to taste 
Ingredients for the chilaquiles: 
2 cups ancho-tomatillo salsa or the salsa of your choice 
Vegetable oil or lard for frying 
8 stale corn tortillas, cut into quarters or 32 tortilla chips 
2 cups diced cooked chicken (optional) 
Salt to taste 
Ingredients For serving: 
Cilantro 
Cotija cheese 
Sour cream 
Lime wedges 
Instructions 
To make the ancho-tomatillo salsa, in a dry skillet heated on high, toast the ancho chile on each side for about 10 seconds or until it starts to puff. Fill the skillet with enough water to cover the chile. Leave the heat on until water begins to boil and then turn off the heat and let the chile soak until soft, about 30 minutes. Once hydrated, discard the soaking water and rinse the chile. 


Meanwhile, place the tomatillos under the broiler and turning once, cook for 10-12 minutes or until blackened. (If using canned tomatillos, skip this step.) 


Place the ancho chile, blackened tomatillos, garlic and 1 cup of water in a blender and blend until smooth, about a minute. Add salt to taste. You should have about 2 cups of salsa. If you have less, add a bit more water. 


To make the chilaquiles, in a large skillet heat about 3/4 inch of oil on medium high until it’s 325 degrees. Line a baking sheet with paper towels. In batches, place the quartered tortillas into the hot oil and fry about one minute per side or until light brown and crisp. Remove fried tortillas with a slotted spatula and place on the paper-towel-lined sheet. Repeat until all the quartered tortillas have been fried. 


Remove the skillet from the heat and pour out all but one tablespoon of oil, discarding the rest. Place the skillet back on the burner and heat to medium-low. Pour in the salsa, and cook the salsa for 2 minutes or until warm. Add the chicken (if using) and the chips and gently stir to coat the chips in the salsa. Cover the skillet, turn down the heat to low, and cook for 2 more minutes. 


Serve with cilantro, Cotija cheese, sour cream and lime wedge. 


Recipe Notes 
To make chilaquiles rojos and verdes, use one cup of the ancho-tomatillo salsa (or any other red salsa of choice) and one cup of salsa verde. Divide the fried tortillas and chicken in half, and cook them separately in each salsa. To serve, place on each plate some of the chilaquiles rojos and the chilaquiles verdes.Likewise, I add chicken to mine for a heartier meal, but you can serve them without the chicken, or with beef, beans, sautéed vegetables or scrambled eggs instead. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSANCHO • CHICKEN • CHILAQUILES • CHILES • MEXICAN • SALSA • TOMATILLOS • TORTILLAS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

36 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

French toast casserole with blueberries and sausage 
BY LISA FAIN 
JUN 15, 2011 
French toast casserole with blueberries and sausage | Homesick Texan 
When most people think of dad cuisine, they think of outdoor cooking. And sure, my dad is an expert with fire—preparing everything from smoked briskets to grilled fish with vegetables. But my dad also wields a deft spatula in the kitchen, especially when he makes his weekend specialty—French toast. 

Admittedly, French toast is not a complex dish. It’s simply old bread that’s been rejuvenated with eggs and milk before being fried in a skillet. And yet—despite its uncomplicated ingredients—finesse is required to make a good batch, otherwise it can turn out soggy or burnt. My dad, however, always gets it just right. And that’s why his is the best. 

My connection with French toast and fatherhood isn’t limited to my own experience. Take the film “Kramer vs. Kramer,” for instance. There’s a scene early in the film where Kramer decides to prepare French toast for his son. The two are clearly uncomfortable with Kramer’s new role as caretaker, and as they cook the French toast, eggs are dropped, milk is spilled, and Kramer burns his hand. Their breakfast is a disaster. 

At the end of the film, however, you see Kramer and his son making French toast in a beautifully coordinated rhythm, as they’ve grown close and learned how to live with each other. Who knew French toast could so eloquently illustrate a father and child’s relationship? 

French toast casserole with blueberries and sausage | Homesick Texan 

Now, all that said—I’m not going to tell you how to make French toast. Nope, my belief is that it’s not a dish that can be explained by words—practice is what makes it turn out perfect. But, I will share with you the next-best thing—my French toast casserole, made with blueberries and sausage. 

My grandma likes to say that I take simple things and make them all complicated. If that’s true, then she will not be surprised that I’ve taken my dad’s simple yet elegant dish and embellished it a bit. Much like regular French toast, French toast casserole is comprised of cooked bread that’s been soaked in eggs and milk. But instead of being pan fried, it’s baked. The inclusion of orange juice, fresh blueberries and spicy sausage also breathes life into this French toast casserole. 

Most recipes call for an overnight soak— which you can do—but I think it’s just as good with a short soak, as this keeps the bread from becoming too soggy. And yes, after some time in the oven, the resulting casserole is soft with a bit of crispness, sweet with a hint of savory. Plus, breakfast is done without you having to stand in front of a stove. Sure, French toast casserole isn’t exactly like regular French toast. But don’t worry—the casserole’s heritage is definitely apparent. 

French toast casserole with blueberries and sausage | Homesick Texan 

Sadly, I’m not going to be seeing my dad this father’s day, but if I were visiting him I’d make sure he’d have a batch of this waiting for him in the morning, so he could take a well-deserved day off from making the family breakfast. But it’s certainly not a dish to be limited to only Father’s Day, as it’s a terrific weekend breakfast any time of the year. 

 Print 
French toast casserole with blueberries and sausage 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter 
2 cups milk or half-and-half 
4 large eggs, lightly beaten 
1/4 cup granulated sugar 
1 teaspoon orange zest 
2 tablespoons orange juice 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 24- inch loaf of French bread, cubed (about 5 cups) 
2 cups fresh blueberries 
1/2 pound breakfast sausage, cooked and crumbled 
Powdered sugar, syrup and/or sour cream for serving 
Instructions 
In a large, 10-inch ovenproof skillet, preferably cast iron, on low heat melt the butter and swirl so it coats the bottom and the sides. (Alternatively, you can add melted butter to a 9×9 square pan.) 



Beat the together the milk and eggs. Whisk in the sugar, orange zest, orange juice, vanilla, cinnamon and salt until well combined. 


Layer the bottom of the skillet with half of the bread. Top with the blueberries and crumbled cooked sausage. Place on top the remaining bread cubes, and then pour over the bread the milk and eggs until all pieces are well covered. 


Preheat the oven to 400° F. Let the casserole sit unrefrigerated for 20 minutes, until some of the milk mixture has been absorbed, and then bake covered for 25 minutes. Remove the cover and then bake uncovered for 20 minutes or until top is firm and lightly browned. Let the casserole rest for 10 minutes before serving. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve with syrup and/or sour cream. 



Recipe Notes 
You could also make this with thick Texas toast bread or even leftover buns, if you like. And if you wanted to add nuts, that would be tasty, too. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBLUEBERRY • CASSEROLE • SAUSAGE 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

36 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 




START RECIPE

Jalapeño and cheese breakfast casserole recipe 
BY LISA FAIN 
MAR 18, 2011 
Jalapeno and cheese breakfast casserole | Homesick Texan 
“Will you be here for breakfast?” ed my mom. I replied that I would. “Great!” she said. “I’ll make Sue’s eggs.” 

Sue is a friend of my mom’s, and she is famous for her breakfast casserole. She gave my mom the recipe, and our family has since made it a staple for special occasions. Now, while I tend to associate this breakfast casserole with Christmas morning, Mom’s making it in March signaled to me that maybe my visit was a cause for celebration, too. 

What she didn’t know, however, was that I almost didn’t make it to her house. Between my running amuck in South Texas, and being so utterly charmed by the town of Victoria, I was tempted to linger in that part of the state and completely omit Houston from my itinerary. 

Jalapeno and cheese breakfast casserole | Homesick Texan 

Fortunately, I made the right decision. 

Besides breakfast, mom also made a simple supper of tamales, apple-walnut salad and guacamole. We washed it down with Topo Chico—bottled Mexican fizzy water that I adore but can’t find in New York City. It was all superb. 

While I ate very well during my time in Texas, I have to admit that the food that Mom cooked was definitely the best eating of my whole trip. Why? Because it was made with love. There’s a lot of sadness and heartbreak in the world right now, and like so many, I feel pretty powerless to make it better. Making donations to relief organizations does its part, of course. But being grateful, giving thanks, and showing love aren’t bad practices either. 

Now, about this breakfast casserole. It’s not complicated—it’s just eggs, cheese, flour and canned green chiles, though Mom has made it her own by adding fresh jalapeños instead. It’s also very rich, as there’s so much cheese in it that one slice will supply you with a week’s worth of vitamin D and calcium. This bit of decadence is probably why my family saves it only for special days. 

Jalapeno and cheese breakfast casserole | Homesick Texan 

But you know what? I’ve decided that mom had the right idea—spending precious time with loved ones is always cause for celebration. We should cherish every moment that we have. So yes, I’m very grateful that I had the opportunity to visit with my mom, and share with her some delicious home-cooked food. It was the highlight of my trip to Texas. Thanks, Mom! 

 Print 
Jalapeño and cheese breakfast casserole 
Servings 6 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
4 large eggs 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 teaspoon dry mustard 
1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 cup cottage cheese 
1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese (4 ounces) 
1 cup shredded sharp cheddar cheese (4 ounces) 
1/4 cup unsalted butter, room temperature 
2 jalapeños, stems and seeds removed, diced 
Salsa, for serving 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Lightly grease an 8×8 casserole dish or baking pan. 

In a large bowl, beat the eggs. Stir in the flour, dry mustard, baking powder and salt. Stir in the cottage cheese, Monterey Jack cheese, cheddar cheese, butter and jalapeños, and mix until incorporated. 


Pour the eggs into the casserole dish, and bake for 20-25 minutes or until the top is lightly browned and the center is firm. Serve warm with salsa. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCASSEROLE • CHEESE • EGGS • JALAPENOS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

56 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 



START RECIPE

Sweet potato biscuits with chorizo cream gravy 
BY LISA FAIN 
NOV 3, 2010 
Sweet potato biscuits with chorizo cream gravy | Homesick Texan 
On Wednesday mornings, I take a tour of Texas’s foodways via its newspapers. I may learn about Mexican cookies being baked in San Antonio: a chile pepper rivalry between El Paso and New Mexico: a sausage festival in Lubbock: the effects of extreme heat on the Valley’s citrus industry: and how this year’s crop of Galveston oysters have finally arrived. 

Foodways is defined by Merriam-Webster as “the eating habits and culinary practices of a people, region, or historical period.” And Texan foodways are an endless source of fascination for me, a topic I never tire of consuming whether it’s through research, discussion or by simply sharing Texan food at the table. 

I’ve mentioned my association with the Southern Foodways Alliance (SFA), a group dedicated to preserving Southern food culture. And while I do consider Texas part of the South, I also consider it beyond being simply Southern as Texas, with its diverse foodways that span from the Mexican border, along the Gulf Coast, through the Piney Woods and Hill Country on up to the panhandle plains, is a place unique to itself. 

Back in July, I was part of a group comprised of restaurateurs, writers, ranchers, farmers, fisherman, brewers and academics that met on the campus of Texas A&M with the purpose of creating a group dedicated to preserving, promoting and celebrating our rich food culture. And by the end of the day, we had formed a new group known as Foodways Texas. 

We’re still in the early stages, but we have an executive director—Marvin Bendele, an academic and author who worked on the fine book, “The Republic of Barbecue.” We also have a web site, foodwaystexas.com: two upcoming fundraising/membership-drive events—one in Houston and one in San Antonio: we have produced our first film on Texan sorghum syrup: and we are planning a symposium on Gulf seafood to be held next spring. We also have an alliance with the University of Texas, which will support our oral-history projects, films and other documentary work: and we also have a relationship with Texas A&M, which through its various statewide campuses will help with hosting our events. 

I’m excited about Foodways Texas because we’ll be able document our state’s great food stories, such as the wonderful ones my grandmother shares about our family’s farming history. But beyond being an historical endeavor, we’ll also have fun gathering and sharing our state’s cuisine. If you love Texan food and culture, I urge you to join Foodways Texas so together we can share and celebrate the great state of Texas’s amazingly rich and diverse food cultures. 

Now, before I let you go, please let me share with you a dish that could be considered emblematic of Texan foodways: sweet potato biscuits with chorizo gravy. 

My family has long grown sweet potatoes. And they’ll definitely be on the table at Thanksgiving, as they are every year. We mash them and use them in sweet potato pie, but let me tell you—they also make for an excellent biscuit as well. I got the idea for these from the SFA symposium—they were served at a breakfast at the symposium that I missed. But just the thought of sweet potato biscuits had me curious so as soon as I returned to New York, I took to my kitchen to try making them. 

I have an old recipe for potato biscuits and I simply swapped the sweet potato for the regular potato. If you’re a fan of the tender sweetness of potato bread, I know that you’ll love these biscuits. And because many of us enjoy drowning our biscuits in cream gravy, I decided to take this Texan classic and throw in some Mexican chorizo and cilantro as a nod to Texas’s various heritages. 

Sweet potato biscuits with chorizo cream gravy | Homesick Texan 

Please enjoy these sweet potato biscuits and the chorizo gravy. And please also think about joining Foodways Texas, so we can all preserve, promote and celebrate the diverse food cultures of Texas. 

 Print 
Sweet potato biscuits with chorizo cream gravy 
Servings 6 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the sweet potato biscuits: 
1 sweet potato (about 1/2 pound) 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 teaspoon granulated sugar 
1/4 teaspoon chipotle powder 
8 tablespoons 1 stick cold butter, sliced 
1/2 cup buttermilk or half-and-half 
Ingredients for chorizo cream gravy: 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1/4 pound Mexican chorizo 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 cups whole milk 
1 tablespoon chopped cilantro 
Salt 
Black pepper 
Chipotle chile powder 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 400 °F. Poke holes in the sweet potato with a fork and place on a foil-lined sheet. Place in the oven and cook until tender, about 1 hour. 


Leaving the oven on, remove the sweet potato and slice in half, lengthwise. Scoop out 1/2 cup of flesh, reserving the rest for another use. 


Mix together the flour, baking powder, salt, sugar, and chipotle powder. Cut the stick of butter into pieces, and work into the flour mixture with your hands or a pastry blender until it resembles pea-sized crumbs. Stir in the 1/2 cup of cooked sweet potato and the buttermilk, mixing until a bit loose and sticky. 


Pour dough out on a floured surface, and knead for a minute. The dough will be smooth but a bit wetter than regular biscuit dough, so you can sprinkle more flour on the surface if you find it’s sticking too much. Take the dough into a ball, and hit it with a rolling pin, turning it and folding it in half every few whacks. Do this for a couple of minutes. Roll out dough until it’s a quarter of an inch thick and then fold it in half. 


Using a round cutter (can use a glass or a cup if don’t have a biscuit cutter) cut out your biscuits from folded dough. Place on a greased baking sheet or in a cast-iron skillet close together (so they rise up not out) and bake for 15 minutes or until the tops are golden brown. 


While the biscuits are baking, make the chorizo gravy. Warm the oil in a skillet on medium heat, and cook the chorizo until browned. With a slotted spatula, remove chorizo from the skillet and place on a plate. Drain the oil from the pan reserving 2 tablespoons in the skillet. 


Combine the oil in the pan with the flour in a hot skillet and while continuously stirring cook on medium low for a couple of minutes until a roux is formed. Add milk slowly to skillet and mix with the roux using either a whisk or wooden spoon (be sure and press out any lumps). Turn heat to low and continue stirring until mixture is thickened, a couple more minutes. 


Stir in the chorizo and cilantro, and add salt, black pepper, and chipotle powder to taste. If gravy is too thick for your taste, you can thin it by adding either more milk or water a tablespoon at a time. 


To assemble the biscuits and gravy, slice each biscuit in half and drizzle with gravy. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSBISCUITS • CHORIZO • GRAVY • SWEET POTATO 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

57 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 



START RECIPE

Apple dutch baby with green chiles 
BY LISA FAIN 
SEP 6, 2010 
Apple dutch baby with green chiles | Homesick Texan 
There’s something about this time of year that makes me feel fresh and crisp, like a first-of-the-season apple. Perhaps it’s the cooler air or perhaps it’s the shorter days, but I feel an urge to get things done 

I used to have a high school teacher who would always say to us, “Don’t squander your time!” Of course, when you’re 16 you feel like you have all the time in the world so we’d just laugh at him. But these days, with a serious manuscript deadline pointing at me, I finally understand—make every moment count. 

The day after Labor Day was always the first day of school when I was a kid. I miss the anticipation, hope and joy that always came with a return to class. And even though these days most kids have been in school since August, I still think of Labor Day as summer’s last hurrah. It’s a time to slowly slough off the longer, lazier days of the season so you can reveal something more direct and purposeful. 

Apple dutch baby with green chiles | Homesick Texan 

The farmers market reflects this transition with its bounty of both late-summer chile peppers and early arrival autumn apples: it’s a time of two seasons. And while you might not usually associate chile peppers with apples, this is the reason why I think that two go together so well. 

If you’re like me, you probably want a heartier breakfast in the cooler months, though if you’re busy you may not have the time to cook an intense morning meal. That’s why I like Dutch babies—a baked pancake that comes together with little effort, yet tastes like you spent hours preparing it. 

Apples are a traditional fruit included in this dish, but I think you’ll like it with the addition of green chiles as well. I use jalapeños for their bright heat, but if you’re in Texas and have access to some Hatch chiles, I think they would be a dandy complement to the apples. 

Apple dutch baby with green chiles | Homesick Texan 

I find that Dutch babies keep for a day or so in the refrigerator (I like to eat them cold sometimes). And they travel well. So if you’re visiting friends you haven’t seen for a while, a green-chile apple Dutch baby is a super thing to share when you  the question, “Say, how was your summer?” 

 Print 
Apple dutch baby with green chiles 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2 firm cooking apples such as Granny Smith, peeled, cored and cut into thin slices 
1/4 cup granulated sugar 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
4 large eggs 
1 cup milk 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1 jalapeño chile, stemmed, seeded, and diced 
1 tablespoon powdered sugar 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 425° F. In a 10-inch ovenproof skillet, preferably cast-iron, melt the butter on low heat. Add the apples, sugar, cinnamon, and salt and while occasionally stirring, cook the apples until soft, about 10 minutes. 


Meanwhile, in a blender add the eggs, milk, flour and vanilla and mix until a smooth batter is formed. When the apples are done, sprinkle on top of them the diced chiles and then pour over the apples the batter. Bake uncovered in the oven for 15 minutes or until it’s puffy and an inserted knife pulls out clean. 


Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve. 


Recipe Notes 
You can substitute Hatch green chiles or poblano chiles if you like. Just be sure and roast them under the broiler until black, place in a sealed plastic or paper bag for 15 minutes and then peel before chopping. I’ve also substituted half-and-half and buttermilk for the milk on occasion, with delicious results. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSAPPLE • JALAPENOS • PANCAKES 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

49 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 



START RECIPE

Uncle Austin’s Mexican pancakes with coconut 
BY LISA FAIN 
FEB 15, 2010 
Mexican pancakes with coconut | Homesick Texan 
The day before Ash Wednesday? Yep, I’m a pancake eater. I grew up in an Episcopalian family and that’s how we rolled—in warm griddlecakes and cold glasses of milk. And even though most of my friends prepare for Lent in a more colorful style, old traditions are hard to shake and I still enjoy a tall stack of pancakes on Shrove Tuesday. 

Pancakes might not be shiny beads, feathered costumes, fevered dancing or boisterous singing, but they don’t have to be completely boring. I’ve been known to serve gingerbread pancakes, buttermilk pancakes, banana nut pancakes and chocolate chip pancakes. But to truly get in the frenzied spirit on the eve of Lent, Uncle Austin’s coconut pancakes (more colorfully known as Uncle Austin’s Mexican pancakes) are a definite must. 

Mexican pancakes with coconut | Homesick Texan 

When I was young, Austin would make these pancakes for us on special occasions. Their main attraction was their size—he’d make one pancake the entire width of a 10-inch pan. And you didn’t even have to share this big baby—no way—this over-sized coconut pancake was all for you! 

But incredible heft aside, Austin’s Mexican pancakes were sweet with fresh coconut, and some family members allege that there was chocolate and nuts in them as well. 

I ed Austin for his recipe, but he said that not only had he not made these in 30 years, but also that he never really had one. Instead, he just took my grandpa’s basic pancake recipe and dolled it up a bit with the shredded coconut, chunks of brown sugar and extra pats of butter. 

Curious why they were known as Mexican pancakes, he admitted that there was nothing authentically Mexican about them, but it was very, very important to be listening to Tejano music, preferably loud, while making them. He stressed, however that the main excitement was in the flipping of the 10-inch pancake—the messier the better! 

Mexican pancakes with coconut | Homesick Texan 

If you’re celebrating pancake Tuesday, why not try Uncle Austin’s Mexican coconut pancakes—they’re far more adventurous than your usual buttermilk pancakes. And with the Tejano thumping and the pancake batter flying, it may be the most thrilling pancake supper you’ve ever had! 

What’s your favorite pancake recipe? 

 Print 
Coconut pancakes (Uncle Austin’s Mexican pancakes) 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
1 large egg 
1 1/2 cups whole milk 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon whole-wheat flour 
1 tablespoon fresh baking powder 
1/2 tsp kosher salt 
1/4 cup brown sugar 
1/2 cup fresh shredded coconut 
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lime juice 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 
Instructions 
Beat together the egg and the milk. 
Stir in the rest of the ingredients and mix until smooth. If too thick, add more milk. 


For regular-sized pancakes, pour 1/4 cup of batter onto greased skillet heated at medium low. For Austin-sized pancakes, pour about 1 1/2 cups to 2 cups of batter into pan. 


Cook for a few minutes on one side, until edges are brown and bubbles form in batter. Flip and cook on other side a couple more minutes. 




Recipe Notes 
Chopped pecans and chocolate chips are an excellent addition if you like. Austin recommends serving them with pineapple and I agree. I also top my pancakes with yogurt, but honey or syrup would be dandy as well. And Austin didn’t add limejuice or cinnamon in his original recipe—that was my doing. 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCOCONUT • PANCAKES 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

53 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 



START RECIPE

Chocolate gravy and biscuits 
BY LISA FAIN 
JAN 27, 2010 
Chocolate gravy and biscuits | Homesick Texan 
A friend and I were comparing notes about our favorite childhood treats. As I was raving about my grandma’s chocolate pie, my friend said, “So how’s your grandma’s chocolate gravy?” Huh? Chocolate gravy—is that like mole, I ed. Nope, it’s spooned on biscuits, she said. I had to admit that I’d never heard of chocolate gravy: clearly I’d been deprived. 

Curious why I had been denied the joys of chocolate gravy all my life, I called my grandma and demanded an explanation. “Why don’t you make chocolate gravy?” I ed. She replied, “Because I don’t know what it is.” 

I see. Apparently, my grandma was in the dark on this secret as well. My only consolation? At least I wasn’t alone. 

Chocolate gravy and biscuits | Homesick Texan 

So what’s the provenance of chocolate gravy? Because I know everything, I assumed that if I hadn’t heard of it, then it must not be Texan. 

I was wrong. 

I poked around and not only had my friend—a long-standing Texan—grown up eating it within slapping distance of Dallas, but other Texan friends had been eating it all their lives as well. I heard chocolate-gravy stories from friends as far west as Midland and as far south as Houston. Though friends who had grown up in Arkansas, Tennessee and Georgia had also indulged, so it’s not particular to just Texas. But no matter, my family had been missing out on a very good thing. 

I needed to make up for lost time. A little research revealed that there hadn’t been much chocolate-gravy recipe evolution over the years. The biggest schism I found in the chocolate-gravy community was whether to use milk or water as your liquid. I was surprised that no one had thrown some chipotle or bacon into their gravy, but actually this pleased me as it proved that chocolate gravy was indeed a classic that didn’t need any tinkering. But enough about thinking, it was time to eat. 

I made my first batch and it was a deep, dark concoction—smooth, creamy and thick. I sliced a biscuit in half and plopped some chocolate gravy on each half. My first bite revealed this gravy’s pleasures. Its pudding-like consistency is pure comfort on a cold, winter morning. And while biscuits are in no way virtuous, their texture and heft prevents the gravy from sliding into total decadence, which is important as this is a breakfast treat after all, not dessert. 

Chocolate gravy and biscuits | Homesick Texan 

Does chocolate gravy and biscuits replace my beloved chocolate pie? No, but I certainly wouldn’t pass up an opportunity to pass an occasional morning with it poured on top of a biscuit. And am I the only one who didn’t grow up eating this? No matter, I am very, very pleased to finally make its acquaintance. 

 Print 
Chocolate gravy 
Servings 4 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
3/4 cup sugar 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour 
1/4 cup cocoa powder 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
2 cups whole milk 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter 
Biscuits, for serving 
Instructions 
Mix together in a pot the sugar, flour, cocoa powder, salt and cinnamon (can sift if it’s too lumpy). Add the milk and while stirring cook on medium heat until it thickens. Stir in the vanilla and butter and serve immediately with biscuits. 


Recipe Notes 
As you can see in the photos I topped mine with some chopped pecans. If you’re not a purist, I highly recommend this: hazelnuts would be delicious as well. And if you’re feeling extra spicy, go ahead and throw in a pinch of Cayenne or chipotle powder! 
SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHOCOLATE • GRAVY 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

125 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 



START RECIPE

Shrimp queso flameado with ranchera salsa 
BY LISA FAIN 
JAN 31, 2013 
Shrimp queso flameado with ranchera salsa | Homesick Texan 
There’s that big game happening this week, and in honor of the host city New Orleans, I thought that it would be a fun idea to make a Cajun-inspired chile con queso. Shrimp, andouille sausage, melted cheese, jalapeños, and tomatoes—it was going to be good! 

Well, I was wrong. Terribly wrong. The queso just seemed strange. How can these ingredients not work together, I wondered. After much thought, I concluded that perhaps it didn’t taste all that bad, but trying to come up with a dish to fit the occasion felt false since I don’t have much of an investment in this particular game. Matter of fact, the last time this season I felt any real thrill about professional football was a Sunday back in early November, when I was in Houston waiting to return to New York after Hurricane Sandy. 

It was an exquisite Texas fall day with a bright blue sky, a cool breeze, and an upbeat energy in the air. Now, I assumed this good feeling came from the beautiful weather, as these clear crisp days are rare in Houston. But as I drove around town and saw flags waving from cars and everyone sporting a jersey, I realized it was a Texans game day, and part of what made the city feel so alive was that Houston was clearly in love with its home team. 

Shrimp queso flameado with ranchera salsa | Homesick Texan 

Football, at its most basic, is about community—a group of people connected by a common passion. It had been a while since I’d been in Houston on a game day, but the joy I saw people exhibit for the Texans was contagious. Of course, it helped that the team was playing well, but still—seeing a city so large and diverse as Houston united made me smile.  

In hindsight, if I’d been smart, I would have headed to the stadium and joined in some tailgating fun. But instead, I had plans to stop for lunch at Teotihuacan in the Heights. I’d never been there before, but every table seemed to be dipping into sizzling skillets thick with melted cheese. They were eating queso flameado, one of my favorite things. I decided to follow their lead. 

It being Houston and all, I opted to go with the shrimp queso flameado. And soon, my own skillet arrived, a luscious bed of soft Monterey Jack topped with garlicky shrimp and piquant red salsa. With a spoon in one hand and a warm tortilla in the other, I got to work. It was the perfect dish for a perfect Houston day. 

When I was struggling with recipes this week, I recalled that day back in Houston and decided that shrimp queso flameado was what I really wanted to make. Fortunately, I had on hand all the ingredients to recreate it, and after making a ranchera salsa, sautéing some shrimp and melting some cheese, I was soon enjoying my own taste of Texas in New York City. 

Shrimp queso flameado with ranchera salsa | Homesick Texan 

While football is about community, regional cuisine is about community, too. People are united by those familiar foods that they love. So on Sunday when folks are serving up the cuisines of Baltimore, San Francisco, or Louisiana to honor their teams, I’ll stick to what I know. And while this shrimp queso flameado isn’t exactly aligned with Sunday’s game, it reminds me of a happy day in my hometown earlier this season. And that’s good enough for me. 

 Print 
Shrimp queso flameado with ranchera salsa 
Servings 8 
Author Lisa Fain 
Ingredients 
Ingredients for the ranchera salsa: 
1 14-ounce can diced tomatoes, preferably fire roasted 
1/4 medium yellow onion, peeled 
2 whole cloves garlic, peeled 
2 jalapeños, cut in half and seeded 
1/2 cup cilantro 
Salt 
Ingredients for the shrimp queso flameado: 
16 ounces (4 cups) Monterey Jack, shredded 
1 pound small shrimp, peeled and deveined 
3 teaspoons olive oil, divided 
2 teaspoons lime juice 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 
Pinch of cayenne 
1 clove garlic, minced 
Warm corn tortillas or flour tortillas, for serving 
Instructions 
To make the ranchera salsa, place the tomatoes, onion, garlic, and jalapeños in a medium pot. (Don’t worry about chopping the garlic, onion or jalapeños as you’ll be putting it in a blender or food processor after it cooks.) Bring the pot to a boil and then turn the heat down to low and simmer for 15 minutes or until the onion, garlic and jalapeño are softened. Turn off the heat and cool for 10 minutes. 


Preheat the oven to 350°F. To make the queso flameado, lightly grease a medium-sized, ovenproof skillet and add to the skillet the shredded cheese. Don’t put it in the oven just yet. Meanwhile, as the salsa is cooling, toss the shrimp with 2 teaspoons of the olive oil, lime juice, salt, pepper, and cayenne. After the salsa has cooled, pour it into a blender or a food processor, along with the cilantro, scraping the sides of the pan to get out all of the salsa. Pulse the salsa until roughly chopped. Add salt to taste. 


At this point, place the skillet with the cheese in the oven and bake until the cheese is melted and bubbling, about 10-15 minutes. 


While the cheese is baking, in the same pot that cooked the salsa, heat up the remaining 1 teaspoon of olive oil on medium-low heat. Add the garlic and shrimp along with any marinade juices, and while occasionally stirring cook until the shrimp are pink and firm, about 3-5 minutes. Pour into the pot the ranchera salsa and stir to combine the shrimp with the salsa. Continue to cook for a couple more minutes or until the sauce has warmed up again. Taste and adjust seasonings. 


Remove the cheese from the oven and spoon on top of the cheese the shrimp and ranchera salsa. Serve warm with tortillas. 


SHARE THIS: 
PinterestTwitterFacebookGoogleLinkedInReddit 
TAGSCHEESE • GAME DAY • QUESO • SALSA • SHRIMP • TOMATO • TORTILLAS 

ABOUTLISA FAIN 
Lisa Fain is a seventh-generation Texan currently living in New York City. Her latest cookbook, Queso! Regional Recipes for the World's Favorite Chile-Cheese Dip, has recently been published. Follow her at: Instagram / Twitter / Facebook 

26 COMMENTS 
Post navigation 
PREVIOUS POST PREVIOUS POST 
NEXT POST NEXT POST 
Search 
Search... 
SEARCH 
Recent Posts 
Fifteen great bites across Texas Pickled black-eyed peas Introducing my new blog design Felix queso Chili parlor queso 
Categories 
Categories 
Never miss a recipe! 
Enter your email and you’ll receive a message every time a new post is published. 


Your email here 

SUBSCRIBE 

BlogHer Food 
Advertise | Privacy 


START RECIPE
Roasted Cauliflower Soup and Parsley Salad Bruschetta 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 18, 2018 

Roasted Cauliflower Soup and Parsley Salad Bruschetta 
Serves 4 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
1 large bulb garlic 
EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil, for drizzling plus 5 tablespoons, divided 
Salt and pepper 
2 heads cauliflower, cut into florets 
Olive oil spray 
1 teaspoon white pepper 
About 1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 
1 large or 2 medium onions, chopped 
1 large bay leaf 
A small bundle of fresh thyme tied with the parsley stems from the salad 
1/2 cup dry white wine (optional) 
1 chunk Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese rind (optional) 
1 quart vegetable or chicken stock 
1/2 cup cream 
For the bruschetta: 

1 bunch (1 cup packed) flat-leaf parsley leaves 
2 small ribs celery heart with leafy tops, very thinly sliced on a bias 
1/2 small red onion, very thinly sliced 
3 tablespoons capers in brine, drained 
Juice of 1 lemon 
Crusty white peasant, Italian or country-style bread, sliced 1/4-inch thick and grilled on a panini press or 
charred over a flame or under broiler 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 425°F. 

Cut the end off of the garlic bulb and drizzle the cloves with EVOO. Season with salt and pepper, and wrap in a foil pouch. Place in oven and roast 45 minutes. 

Arrange the cauliflower on a large baking sheet and coat with olive oil spray. Season with salt, black and white pepper, and nutmeg. Roast about 30 minutes until golden and just tender. 

Heat a large soup pot over medium-high heat with 2 tablespoons EVOO, 2 turns of the pan. Add onions, bay, herb bundle, salt and pepper, and cook to soften onions, 5-7 minutes. Add wine, let evaporate then add rind, stock and 1 cup water. Bring to boil then reduce heat to a simmer. 

When cool enough to handle, remove garlic from skins and mash them into a paste. Add paste to soup along with the roasted cauliflower, reserving a few small florets for garnish. 

Simmer soup 10-15 minutes more. 

Combine parsley leaves, celery, red onions and capers in a mixing bowl. Dress with lemon juice and remaining 3 tablespoons EVOO. 

Cut toasted or charred bread into small portions and top with salad to let it soak into bread a bit. 

Remove herb bundle and rind from the soup then purée it with an immersion blender. Stir in cream and adjust seasoning to taste. 

Serve soup garnished with small cauliflower florets and an extra drizzle of EVOO, with parsley salad bruschetta alongside. 

SOUP 

START RECIPE
Sweet Onion Burgers and Vinegar Oven Fries 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 16, 2018 

Sweet Onion Burgers and Vinegar Oven Fries 
Serves 4 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the fries: 

2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons white vinegar, divided 
3 Russet potatoes, peeled 
Cooking spray 
Fine sea salt or kosher salt 
For the onions: 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 large onions, quartered, peeled and thinly sliced 
1 large bay leaf 
Salt 
White pepper and finely ground black pepper 
1/2 cup sour cream 
1/4 cup ketchup 
3 tablespoons pickle relish, such as Wickles 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 tablespoon safflower, vegetable or canola oil 
1 1/2 pounds 80% lean ground beef 
8 slices sharp American cheese, such as Cooper, mild cheddar or Swiss 
4 potato burger rolls 
Chopped iceberg or gem Romaine lettuce 
Bread-and-butter pickle slices 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 425°F. 

Place 2 tablespoons vinegar and about 3 cups water in a bowl. Cut the peeled potatoes first into planks then into thin fries. Add fries to vinegar bath and soak 20 minutes. 

Drain fries and dry, then spread them out on a large baking sheet in a single layer. Sprinkle fries with remaining 2 teaspoons vinegar and spray with cooking spray. Season with salt and roast 20 minutes: turn fries over and roast 20 more minutes. Remove from oven and salt to taste. 

While the fries are cooking, in a skillet over medium heat, melt butter for the onions. Add onions and bay, and season with salt and both peppers. Cook onions 15-20 minutes until very soft and light caramel in color. Add 1 cup of water and cook 10 minutes longer until onions are a deep caramel color and the water has been absorbed. 

In a bowl, combine sour cream, ketchup, relish and Worcestershire sauce. 

Heat a cast-iron skillet over medium-high to high heat with oil, 1 turn of the pan. Divide the meat into four portions and loosely roll each portion into a ball. Add balls to the hot pan and smash them into patties with a metal burger spatula. Season with salt and pepper, and cook 3 minutes then flip and top each patty with 2 slices of cheese. Cook burgers 2-3 minutes more, tenting with foil to melt the cheese. 

To build the burgers, slather sauce on the bun bottoms and top with lettuce, pickles, a burger patty and some sweet onions. Set bun tops in place and serve. 

BURGERS 

START RECIPE
Serious Three-Meat Chili 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 12, 2018 

Serious Three-Meat Chili 
Serves 6 to 8 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
2 tablespoons olive or vegetable oil 
1/2 pound meaty bacon, chopped 
1 1/2 pounds 80% lean ground beef 
Salt and pepper 
1/4 cup chili powder, such as Gebhardt 
2 teaspoons (2/3 palmful) ground coriander 
2 teaspoons (2/3 palmful) cumin 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) dried oregano 
1 teaspoon paprika or smoked paprika 
1 pound spicy breakfast or spicy Italian sausage, bought as bulk or removed from casings 
2 Anaheim or other mild-heat green peppers, seeded and chopped 
1 red field pepper or bell pepper, seeded and chopped 
1 rib celery, chopped 
1 large onion, chopped 
4 cloves garlic, chopped 
2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 
1 cup lager beer 
3 cups beef stock 
1 28-ounce can or 2 15-ounce cans diced tomatoes 
1 teaspoon honey or sugar 
3 to 4 tablespoons cornmeal, masa or ground tortilla chips 
Toppings: 

White onion, chopped and rinsed 
Pickled jalapeño pepper rings 
Preparation 
Heat a large pot over medium-high heat with 2 turns of the pan of oil. Add bacon and stir until crisp. Remove bacon to a plate and drain excess fat from pan, if necessary. 

Add beef to the pot and cook over medium-high heat, breaking it up with a wooden spoon. Season the beef with salt, pepper, chili powder, coriander, cumin, oregano and paprika. Add sausage to the pot as the beef browns then add peppers, celery, onions and garlic. Partially cover pot and cook to soften veggies, 7-8 minutes. 

Add Worcestershire, beer, stock, tomatoes, honey or sugar, cornmeal and reserved bacon. Bring to a bubble then reduce heat and simmer chili over medium-low heat for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. 

Serve chili in bowls topped with onions and pickled jalapeños, with cornbread or warm tortilla chips. 

Reheat leftovers with a little water or stock to loosen. 

CHILI 

START RECIPE
Two-Sauce Baked Ziti 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 11, 2018 

Two-Sauce Baked Ziti 
Serves 6 to 8 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the meat sauce: 

2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
2 tablespoons butter 
2 ounces pancetta, finely chopped/diced 
3/4 pound ground beef 
1/2 pound (2 links) sweet sausage with fennel, casings removed 
4 chicken livers (about 3 ounces), trimmed and very finely chopped (optional) 
1 onion, finely chopped 
1 large bay leaf 
1/2 teaspoon ground thyme or 1 teaspoon dried leaves 
A few grates nutmeg 
3 cloves garlic, finely chopped or grated 
Salt and black pepper 
1 tablespoon finely chopped rosemary 
1 cup white wine 
1 28-ounce can crushed or diced tomatoes 
1 pound ziti rigate or penne rigate 
1 cup ricotta cheese, drained 
1 cup mozzarella cheese, diced 
2 eggs, beaten 
1/2 cup grated Parm cheese 
2 tablespoons parsley, finely chopped 
Salt and pepper 
For the béchamel: 

3 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons flour 
1 cup warm milk 
Salt, white pepper and nutmeg, to taste 
1/2 cup cream 
A handful grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 
Preparation 
For the meat sauce, heat EVOO, 2 turns of the pan and melt in butter. Add pancetta, render 2 minutes then add beef and sausage (and liver, if using). Brown 12-15 minutes then add onions, bay, thyme, nutmeg, garlic, salt, pepper and rosemary, and cook 10 minutes more. Add wine and let it absorb: add tomatoes and simmer 30-40 minutes. 

Cook pasta 5 minutes in salted boiling water. Reserve 1 cup starchy cooking water then drain and run pasta under cold water to cool. 

Combine ricotta, mozzarella, eggs, Parm, parsley, salt and pepper in bowl. 

For the béchamel, heat a saucepot over medium heat, add butter and melt. Whisk in flour then milk, season with salt, white pepper and nutmeg to taste, lower heat and add cream. Cook to thicken slightly. 

Preheat oven to 375°F. 

Toss pasta with all of the meat sauce. Pour half into a lasagna pan or baking casserole then top with ricotta mixture. Add remaining pasta and meat sauce, and top casserole with béchamel and Parm. Bake to brown and bubbly. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Philly a la Pizzaiola 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 11, 2018 

Philly a la Pizzaiola 
Serves 4 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
2 field peppers or red frying peppers 
3 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil plus additional for drizzling 
1 large onion, quartered and thinly sliced 
4 cloves garlic, sliced 
Salt 
1 teaspoon dried oregano, lightly crushed in your palm 
1 teaspoon chili flakes 
2 tablespoons sun-dried tomato paste 
1/2 cup white or red wine 
1 14-ounce can crushed tomatoes 
3 tablespoons hot pickled pepper rings, chopped or hot pickled pepper/Hoagie Spread plus a splash of brine 
About 3 to 4 tablespoons olive oil, to crisp steaks 
1 1/4 pounds very thinly sliced/shaved boneless rib-eye steak 
Salt and pepper 
Soft Italian hoagie rolls (12-inch sub rolls), split 
1 ball smoked mozzarella, shredded or 2 1/2 cups shredded provolone 
Preparation 
Char peppers under the broiler or over a gas flame then place in a bowl and cover to steam. Let cool, peel and seed them then slice into strips. 

Heat a skillet or a saucepot over medium-high heat with EVOO. Add onions, garlic, salt, oregano and chili flakes, and cook to soften, 8-10 minutes. Add tomato paste, stir, then add wine and stir a minute more. Add tomatoes, roasted pepper strips, pickled peppers and brine. Simmer while you cook meat. 

Heat a cast-iron skillet over high heat. Add a drizzle of oil to the pan and the steak. Toss and chop meat with a metal spatula or toss with tongs to brown and crisp: season with salt and pepper. 

Fill rolls with cheese then top with hot beef and some sauce. 

SAMMIES WRAPS AND SUBS 

START RECIPE
Cast-Iron Skillet Chicken with Fennel, Potato, Onion and Roasted Garlic 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 9, 2018 

Cast-Iron Skillet Chicken with Fennel, Potato, Onion and Roasted Garlic 
Serves 2 to 4 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
1 3 1/2- to 4-pound chicken 
Kosher salt 
1 large bulb fennel or 2 medium, trimmed and cut into 3/4- to 1-inch wedges 
2 large Russet potatoes, peeled and cut into 1-inch wedges 
2 medium onions, cut into 1-inch wedges 
2 tablespoons fresh thyme 
About 1/4 cup EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil, divided 
Black pepper 
1 teaspoon fennel seeds 
2 bulbs garlic, top ends cut to expose cloves 
1 lemon, halved 
1/2 cup white wine 
1/2 cup chicken stock 
1/4 cup cream 
Preparation 
Salt chicken inside and out: tie legs and trim wing tips. Refrigerate several hours or overnight uncovered or at least 1 hour on counter. 

Place a cast-iron skillet in the oven and preheat oven to 425°F. 

Toss fennel, potatoes, onions, half the thyme, some salt and pepper in a bowl with about 3 tablespoons EVOO. Pat chicken dry then drizzle with oil and season with remaining thyme, black pepper and fennel seed. 

Drizzle the garlic with oil and season with salt and pepper. 

Remove the hot skillet from the oven and add vegetables. Nest garlic in the veggies cut-side up then set chicken on top. Roast 1 hour, adding lemon halves to the pan in the last 20 minutes of cooking time. Chicken should have an internal temperature of 160°F at the thigh. 

Set chicken on a cutting board to rest for 15-20 minutes. Remove veggies with a slotted spoon to a bowl or plate and reserve. Press garlic from their skins and paste it in a small bowl. 

Place the skillet with the pan drippings over medium heat and add white wine. Whisk in pasted garlic and stock, and bring to bubble. Remove pan from heat and add cream and juice of 1/2 lemon. 

Carve chicken and douse meat with juice of remaining lemon half. 

Serve chicken with fennel and potatoes alongside, with some roasted garlic cream spooned over everything. 

CHICKEN 

START RECIPE
Rigatoni with Bacon, Onion and Balsamic Vinegar (Mezze Rigatoni all’Amatriciana a Modena) 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 8, 2018 

Rigatoni with Bacon, Onion and Balsamic Vinegar (Mezze Rigatoni all’Amatriciana a Modena) 
Serves 4 to 6 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
About 3 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
8 ounces meaty guanciale or pancetta, cut into 1/4-inch dice 
2 medium onions, finely chopped 
1 teaspoon sugar or Acacia honey 
4 cloves garlic, chopped 
Salt and pepper 
2 large fresh bay leaves 
1 cup chicken stock 
1 tablespoon aged Balsamic vinegar (the thicker the better) 
1 28-ounce can San Marzano tomatoes 
1 Parm rind (cut off your Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese chunk!) 
1 pound mezze rigatoni, rigatoni or penne rigate 
Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese, to toss and serve 
Preparation 
Bring a large pot of water to a boil for the pasta. 

Heat a large saucepot or skillet over medium to medium-high heat with EVOO, 3 turns of the pan. Add guanciale or pancetta and render 2-3 minutes: add onions, sugar or honey, salt and pepper. Add bay leaves and partially cover to soften, 5-6 minutes. Add stock and balsamic, and let it evaporate into the onions, 2-3 minutes. Add tomatoes and Parm rind, breaking the tomatoes up with a spoon. Simmer until ready to serve. 

Cook pasta 1 minute less than package directions to al dente, reserving 1 cup starchy water before draining. 

Remove bay leaves from sauce. Toss pasta with sauce, starchy water and a handful of cheese. Serve in shallow bowls with more cheese passed at the table. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Greek Baked Fish or Chicken 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 5, 2018 

Greek Baked Fish or Chicken 
Serves 4 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the sauce: 

2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
1 large onion, finely chopped 
4 large garlic, chopped 
Salt and pepper 
2 tablespoons sun-dried tomato paste 
1 teaspoon sugar 
1 small cinnamon stick 
1 bay leaf 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) dried oregano or marjoram 
1 1/2 teaspoons (half a palmful) paprika or pimentón, smoked sweet paprika 
1 cup white wine 
1 28-ounce can diced or chunky crushed tomatoes 
2 pounds halibut, cod or black cod or boneless, skinless chicken breasts 
1 lemon 
EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil, for drizzling 
Salt and pepper 
1/2 cup flat-leaf parsley 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 400°F. 

For the sauce, heat EVOO in a deep skillet or saucepot over medium heat. Add onions and garlic, and season with salt and pepper. Cook to soften, 10 minutes. Add tomato paste, sugar, cinnamon stick, bay leaf and spices. Stir, add wine and reduce by half. Add tomatoes and simmer 15 minutes. Discard bay and cinnamon. 

Arrange fish or chicken in a shallow baking pan or casserole and dress with lemon juice, EVOO, salt and pepper. Cover fish or chicken with sauce and parsley, and bake 15-18 minutes for fish until opaque or 25-30 minutes for chicken. 

FISH AND SEAFOOD 

START RECIPE
Detox Kale Salad 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 5, 2018 

Detox Kale Salad 
Serves 4 to 6 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the salad: 

1 bunch flat kale, stemmed and sliced or chopped 
1 gem Romaine shredded or chopped 
1/2 red onion, halved and thinly sliced 
1/2 bulb fennel very thinly sliced 
1/2 cup pomegranate seeds 
1 cup feta crumbles 
1/2 cup pine nuts or pistachio nuts, toasted 
Sliced green pepperoncini, pickled hot or mild peppers 
For the dressing: 

Juice of 1 small lemon 
2 tablespoons white or red wine vinegar 
2 teaspoons sugar or Acacia honey 
Salt and pepper 
1 large clove garlic, grated 
1/2 cup Greek yogurt 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
1/3 cup EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
1/2 cup mixed finely chopped herbs such as parsley, dill and chives 
Preparation 
Place the salad ingredients in a bowl. 

Whisk up lemon juice, vinegar, sugar, salt and pepper garlic, yogurt, oregano, EVOO and herbs or shake in a jar. 

Dress salad and serve. 

SALADS 

START RECIPE
Roasted Beet Spaghetti Cooked in Red Wine 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 3, 2018 

Roasted Beet Spaghetti Cooked in Red Wine 
Serves 4 to 6 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
Salt 
1 pound spaghetti 
1 bunch beets with large leafy tops*, greens trimmed, washed and sliced 1/2 inch thick and beets trimmed and left in skins 
EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil, for drizzling plus about 3 tablespoons 
Salt and pepper 
1 bottle Rosso di Montalcino or Rosso di Montepulciano (Tuscan red wine) 
1 pound Italian sweet sausage with fennel (leave out to make this vegetarian) 
4 large shallots or small 1 red onion, finely chopped 
4 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1 teaspoon sugar 
2 tablespoons aged balsamic vinegar 
Grated Pecorino or ricotta salata cheese, grated 
Toasted pistachios (Sicilian pistachios are my favorites), chopped 
Chopped mint and parsley, to serve 
*If your beet greens aren’t very leafy or edible, substitute a small bundle of lacinato (flat) kale, stemmed and shreddre 

Preparation 
Preheat oven to 400°F. Rub beets with a drizzle of oil and season with salt and pepper. Place beets in baking dish, cover dish with foil and roast beets until tender. Remove from oven and cool to handle. Rub skins from beets with a paper towel. (Before handling the beets, rub your hands with a little olive oil to keep them from staining.) 

Chop beets into bite-sized pieces. (Use a rubber cutting board to keep wood from staining.) 

Bring a large pot of water to a boil for the pasta. Salt water and add spaghetti, boil 5 minutes and drain. Return pot to stove, add wine and bring to a boil. Reduce over high heat for 2-3 minutes then add in the pasta and cook over medium-high heat, tossing frequently with tongs, until most of the liquid evaporates. Add beet greens when pasta is just about al dente. 

Meanwhile, in a skillet over medium-high heat in a drizzle of olive oil. Add sausage, if using, and brown and crumble. Add 3 turns of the pan of EVOO along with the shallots or onions, garlic, salt and pepper. Cook to tender 5-7 minutes. Sprinkle with sugar then add the vinegar and some of the wine sauce to deglaze pan. Scrape veggies into the pot with the pasta and toss to combine. Add in beets and sausage, and toss again. Garnish with lots of salty, tangy ricotta salata, nuts, mint and parsley. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Nacho Average Taco Salad 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 3, 2018 

Nacho Average Taco Salad 
Serves 6 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the salad base: 

2 heads iceberg lettuce, cored, quartered and shredded 1/4- to 1/2-inch thick 
1 white onion, chopped and soaked in water 10 minutes and drained (to mellow the bite) 
3 vine or 4 plum tomatoes, seeded and diced 
For the Chipotle-Lime Dressing: 

About 3 tablespoons puréed or finely chopped chipotle in Adobo 
3 tablespoons honey or light agave 
Juice of 2 limes 
3 tablespoons white wine vinegar or cider vinegar 
1 large clove garlic, grated or finely chopped 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) dry oregano 
1 teaspoon granulated onion 
1/2 to 2/3 cup corn oil or EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
For toppings: 

2 pounds coarsely ground beef sirloin 
2 tablespoons corn or olive oil 
Salt and pepper 
1 tablespoon each chili powder (such as Gebhardt’s) and coriander 
1 tablespoon ground cumin 
1 yellow onion, finely chopped (reserve 3 tablespoons for taco sauce) 
3 large cloves garlic, grated or finely chopped 
2 jalapeño peppers, finely chopped 
1 cup beef stock or beer 
1 bag corn tortilla chips 
1 1/2 cups shredded sharp yellow cheddar 
1 chunk (1/3 pound) Pepper Jack cheese, shredded 
For the avocado crema: 

1 small ripe avocado 
1 lime 
1 cup sour cream 
For the taco sauce: 

1 can diced tomatoes and green chilies 
1 tablespoon white wine vinegar or cider vinegar 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
A small bunch cilantro 
Pickled jalapeño rings 
Preparation 
Combine iceberg, onions and tomatoes in a bowl then arrange on large cutting board or mound on a very large platter. Set aside. 

In a bowl, combine all dressing ingredients except oil. While whisking, add the oil in slow stream to emulsify dressing. Transfer to a pitcher, squeeze bottle or gravy boat, and set aside. 

In a large skillet over medium-high heat, brown ground beef in 2 tablespoons oil and season with salt, pepper, chili powder, 1 tablespoon cumin and coriander. Add onions, jalapeños and garlic, and soften 5 minutes. Add stock or beer and let it absorb. 

Preheat oven to 400°F. Arrange chips on baking sheet and top with cheese. Bake to melt cheese and toast chips, 6-7 minutes. 

For the avocado crèma, in a food processor, combine the avocado, salt, sour cream, juice of a lime, and a splash of water. Puree and transfer to bowl or squeeze bottle, rinse processor, return to base. 

For the taco sauce, combine tomatoes with green chilies, vinegar, 1 teaspoon cumin, reserved chopped onion, about 2 tablespoons cilantro leaves, 1 teaspoon granulated garlic and salt to taste. Transfer to bowl. 

To assemble salad, pour some dressing lightly over greens (reserve the rest to pass at table). Top the lettuce with warm cheesy chips then the beef taco topping. Garnish beef with dollops of avocado crema. Drizzle taco sauce across the nachos and sprinkle with sliced pickled jalapeño peppers and cilantro leaves to garnish. 

START RECIPE
Za’atar Fried Chicken with Green Tahini Sauce and Harissa Honey 
By Rachael Ray  •  January 2, 2018 

Za’atar Fried Chicken with Green Tahini Sauce and Harissa Honey 
Serves 4 to 6 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
1 1/4 cups tahini 
About 1/4 cup lemon juice 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
1 teaspoon plus 2 tablespoons ground cumin 
Salt 
3 scallions, chopped 
1 cup parsley leaves 
1/4 cup dill tops plus a small handful dill, chopped 
1 cup buttermilk 
2 tablespoons hot sauce 
1 to 1 1/2 pounds each boneless, skinless white and dark chicken, cut into 2-inch-wide pieces 
3 to 4 cups fry oil 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1/4 cup sesame seeds 
3 tablespoons sumac 
2 tablespoons oregano or marjoram 
1 tablespoon hot paprika or chili powder 
Pepper 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme 
1/4 cup harissa paste 
1 cup honey 
Lemon wedges, for serving 
Preparation 
In a food processor, combine tahini with lemon juice, garlic, 1 teaspoon cumin and salt, and process into a sauce. (If it’s too thick, add a little water.). Adjust salt to taste. 

Place about half of the sauce in a mixing bowl and reserve. Add scallions, parsley and dill tops to the food processor with the tahini and process until smooth. Reserve green sauce. 

To the mixing bowl with the plain tahini, add the buttermilk and hot sauce. Add chicken, toss to coat and chill 2-4 hours. 

Heat oil to 350°F. 

Combine flour with 2 tablespoons cumin, sesame seeds, sumac, oregano or marjoram, paprika or chili powder, salt and pepper. 

Working in batches, shake excess marinade from chicken and coat in za’atar-spiced flour. Add chicken to hot old and fry to deep golden and cooked through. 

START RECIPE
Crispy Potatoes with Toppings Bar 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 25, 2017 

Crispy Potatoes with Toppings Bar 
Serves 4-6 servings as main, 8-10 as app 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the Crispy Potatoes: 

2 to 2 1/2 pounds small white- or yellow-skin potatoes 
1 quart chicken stock 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 tablespoons butter 
2 cloves garlic, grated or chopped 
1 1/2 teaspoons (half a palmful) each cumin seeds, coriander seeds and caraway seeds 
Salt and pepper 
1 teaspoon paprika 
A handful of finely chopped parsley 
Minced chives 
Pick-and-Choose Toppings: 

Crème fraîche 
Caviar 
Smoked salmon 
Pickled onions or shallots (2 shallots or 1 small onion, thinly sliced pickled in 1/2 cup red wine vinegar, 1 tablespoon sugar and 1 1/2 teaspoons fine sea or kosher salt) 
Capers 
Thinly sliced seedless cucumbers 
Sliced vine or plum tomatoes 
Smoky bacon, baked at 375°F on a slotted pan until crispy then chopped 
Caramelized onions 
Prepared horseradish or beet horseradish 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 450°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment. 

Place potatoes in a pot and add stock (and water if necessary to cover) and bring to boil. Reduce heat, keep at a rolling boil and cook to tender. Drain potatoes and dry them out. Crush with the bottom of a glass. 

In a small pot, heat olive oil and butter with garlic. Arrange crushed potatoes on parchment-lined baking sheet and brush them liberally with garlic-oil-butter. Season with cumin, coriander and cumin seeds, salt, pepper, paprika. Bake 20 minutes or until crispy, top with parsley and chives, arrange on a platter or board and serve with toppings of choice. 

Combine harissa and honey in a small pot and warm over low heat. 

Serve chicken with lemon wedges, green sauce and hot honey alongside. 

Serving suggestion: Chicken goes great with an Israeli Salad (chopped tomatoes, seedless cucumber and white onion dressed with lemon, EVOO and salt), Israeli pickles (they come in a yellow can) and hot charred pitas. 

START RECIPE
Cordon Bleu Meatballs with Dijon Gravy 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 22, 2017 

Cordon Bleu Meatballs with Dijon Gravy 
Serves about 30 meatballs 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the meatballs:  

1/4 pound deli-sliced mild ham, coarsely chopped 
1 shallot, coarsely chopped 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
1/2 cup (a handful) parsley tops 
A few sprigs thyme, stemmed 
1 pound ground chicken 
Salt and pepper 
A few grates nutmeg (about 1/8 teaspoon) 
1 cup fresh breadcrumbs from white bread 
Milk, to moisten crumbs 
2 egg yolks 
1/2 pound chunk Comté, Gruyère or Swiss cheese, cut into half-inch cubes 
About 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, for dredging 
Salt and pepper 
4 eggs, beaten 
1 cup panko breadcrumbs 
1 cup fine breadcrumbs 
A handful parsley, finely chopped 
A few sprigs thyme, stemmed 
Zest of 1 lemon 
1/2 cup grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 
About 1 quart safflower or vegetable oil, for frying, 
For the gravy: 

4 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons flour 
Salt and white pepper 
1/2 cup white wine 
2 cups chicken stock 
Juice of 1/2 lemon 
1/4 cup heavy cream 
2 rounded tablespoons Dijon mustard 
About 2 tablespoons fresh tarragon, chopped 
Preparation 
In a food processor, pulse the ham, shallot, garlic and herbs to finely chop. 

Place chicken in a bowl and season with salt and pepper and nutmeg. Add moistened bread (squeeze out any excess liquid), egg yolks and the ham mixture, and combine. Use a small scoop to portion meat, flatten it out in your hand, place a cheese cube in the center and wrap meat around cheese as you roll the balls. 

Arrange a breading station: In three shallow dishes, place flour seasoned with salt and pepper, the eggs and breadcrumbs combined with herbs, lemon zest and Parm. 

Heat oil to 350°F in tabletop fryer, Dutch oven or deep, cast-iron skillet. Fry meatballs to deeply golden and keep warm in a low oven while you prepare the gravy. 

In a skillet or saucepot, melt butter. Whisk in flour, season with salt and white pepper. Whisk in wine then chicken stock and thicken. Add lemon juice then cream, remove from heat and stir in Dijon and tarragon. 

Serve meatballs with warm tarragon gravy alongside. 

START RECIPE
Disco Potato Balls 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 22, 2017 

Disco Potato Balls 
Serves Makes 24 to 26 balls 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the gravy cubes: 

2 1-inch ice cube trays 
3 tablespoons butter 
About 1 1/2 teaspoons black pepper 
3 tablespoons flour 
1 splash white wine 
2 1/2 cups beef stock 
Salt 
For the Potato Balls: 

6 large Russet potatoes, peeled and cut into 4 pieces each 
6 large cloves garlic, crushed 
Salt 
White pepper, to taste 
Freshly grated nutmeg, to taste 
4 tablespoons melted butter 
About 1 cup warm milk or half-n-half 
1 1/2 cups grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Cheese, divided 
About 2 cups all-purpose flour for dredging 
4 large eggs, beaten 
2 cups breadcrumbs 
About 1 quart frying oil 
Preparation 
For the gravy cubes, melt butter in a saucepot over medium-high heat. When it foams, add black pepper and whisk in flour. Thicken the roux but keep it pale, then whisk in wine and stock. Thicken gravy and season with salt to taste. 

Spoon gravy into ice cube trays, about halfway up each cube. You should have 24-26 cubes. Place trays in the freezer until completely frozen. 

Place potatoes and garlic in a large pot and cover with water. Bring to a boil, salt water and cook potatoes to tender. Drain potatoes and press through a food mill or ricer. Season with white pepper and nutmeg: stir in butter, milk and half the grated cheese. Spread mashed potatoes out on a parchment-lined baking sheet to cool then chill completely in the fridge. 

Set up a breading station of three shallow dishes with flour, eggs and breadcrumbs mixed with remaining cheese. 

Heat frying oil to 350°F in a deep pan or tabletop fryer. 

When the oil is ready, scoop some mashed potatoes into your hand, place a gravy cube in the middle and wrap potatoes around, forming a 2-inch ball. Coat balls first in flour, then eggs then breadcrumbs and fry to deep golden. 

Serve hot. 

START RECIPE
Whiskey-Bacon-Cheddar Cheese Ball 
By John Cusimano  •  December 22, 2017 

Whiskey-Bacon-Cheddar Cheese Ball 
Serves 10 to 12 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
12 slices smoky bacon 
1 8-ounce brick cream cheese, at room temperature 
1 cup cubed sharp white cheddar cheese (Irish or American) plus 1 1/2 cups shredded 
1 shallot, grated 
1 clove garlic, grated 
1/4 cup good quality Irish whisky, such as Jamesons 
2 to 3 dashes bitters, such as Angostura 
About 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 teaspoon dry mustard 
Salt and pepper 
3/4 cup smoked almonds, chopped or coarsely processed 
1/4 cup chives, finely chopped 
A handful parsley, finely chopped 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 375°F. 

Arrange bacon on a slotted pan or wire rack-lined baking sheet and bake to crisp. Cool to room temperature then finely chop. 

In the bowl of a food processor, combine softened cream cheese, cubed Cheddar, shallot and garlic, and process until fairly smooth. Transfer mixture into mixing bowl. 

Using a rubber spatula, stir in shredded cheese, whisky, bitters, Worcestershire, mustard, salt, pepper and about two-thirds of the bacon bits. Reserve the rest of the bacon for topping. 

Lay a good amount of plastic wrap on a flat surface and transfer cheese mixture to the plastic. Twist up the four corners of the plastic and tighten to form a ball shape. Refrigerate at least 2 hours or overnight. 

In a shallow dish, combine chopped smoked almonds, reserved bacon bits and fresh chives and parsley. Roll the cheese ball in the mixture until the ball is completely and evenly coated. 

Serve with your favorite crackers, pretzel rods or veggie planks such as carrots, parsnips, red peppers and/or celery. 

START RECIPE
Mamma Leone-Style Meat, Spinach and Sausage Lasagna 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 21, 2017 

Mamma Leone-Style Meat, Spinach and Sausage Lasagna 
Serves 8 to 10 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the tomato-basil purée: 

1 jar (4 cups) passata 
About 2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
Salt 
A few leaves torn basil 
For the marinara: 

About 1/4 cup olive oil 
1 onion, finely chopped 
1 carrot, grated or finely chopped 
1 rib celery with leafy tops, finely chopped 
3 cloves garlic, thinly sliced or grated 
1 rounded teaspoon sugar 
Salt and white pepper 
About 1 1/2 teaspoons (half a palmful) dry oregano 
About 1 teaspoons (1/3 palmful) red pepper flakes 
About 2 tablespoons fresh thyme, chopped 
1/4 cup tomato paste 
1 1/2 cups white wine 
1 can crushed or whole San Marzano tomatoes, hand-crushed or broken up with spoon 
1 jar (4 cups) passata 
A few leaves basil, torn 
For the meat sauce: 

2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 1/2 pounds 80-85% lean ground beef 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) fennel seed 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) crushed red pepper flakes 
Salt 
1/2 cup (a generous handful) flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped 
3 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1 cup homemade breadcrumbs, tossed with 1/4 cup garlic butter, toasted and combined with a handful chopped parsley 
For the white sauce: 

3 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons flour 
1/2 cup white wine 
2 cups milk 
1 cup grated Parmigiano-Reggiano or Grana Padano cheese 
Salt and white pepper 
1 16-ounce package organic chopped frozen spinach, defrosted and wrung dry 
2 cups fresh ricotta, drained 
2 egg yolks 
Salt and pepper 
About 1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 
1 pound (4 links) mild Italian sausage 
To assemble: 

Softened butter 
1 box no-boil lasagna sheets or curly lasagna noodles, half-cooked (5 minutes) 
1 ball (2 1/2 cups) mozzarella, shredded or thinly sliced 
Grated Parm or Grana Padano cheese, a couple handfuls 
Preparation 
For the purée, combine passata with EVOO, salt and basil. 

For the marinara, heat a Dutch oven or saucepot over medium to medium-high heat. Add olive oil, 4 turns of the pan, along with the onions, carrot, celery, garlic, sugar, salt and white pepper, oregano, red pepper and thyme. Cook to soften, 10 minutes. Add tomato paste, stir 1 minute, then add wine and reduce by half. Add tomatoes, passata and basil, and simmer 20-30 minutes. 

For the meat sauce, heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add meat and crumble and brown. Add fennel, red chili flakes and salt. Combine the parsley with the garlic then stir into meat. Add about half of the marinara sauce to the beef. Add all of the toasted garlic breadcrumbs to the meat sauce. 

For the white sauce, melt butter in small saucepan over medium heat. Whisk in flour then add wine and reduce by half. Add milk, season with salt and white pepper, and thicken. Stir in grated cheese and remove from heat. 

In a bowl, combine spinach, ricotta, egg yolks, salt, pepper and nutmeg. When white sauce has cooled, combine it with the spinach and ricotta. 

In a medium-size, nonstick skillet, bring 1/8 inch of water to a boil. Add sausages and reduce to a simmer. Cook sausages through, letting the water evaporate. Add a drizzle of olive oil and brown casings. Remove, cool and slice very thin on a bias. 

Preheat oven to 350°F with a rack in the center. 

Butter a lasagna pan. To assemble lasagna, ladle some of the tomato-basil purée on the bottom of the pan then build layers of pasta, 1/2 of the meat sauce, pasta, all of spinach and white sauce mixture, pasta, sausage, plain marinara, pasta, remaining meat sauce, pasta and tomato-basil purée. Top with mozzarella and grated cheese. 

Bake covered with foil for 45 minutes then remove foil and bake uncovered 15-20 minutes until golden and bubbly. Let sit 20 minutes before cutting. 

Serve with extra marinara and warm Italian bread at the table. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Coq-Au-Vin Fried Chicken and Ranch Noodles 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 20, 2017 

Coq-Au-Vin Fried Chicken and Ranch Noodles 
Serves 4 to 6 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the marinade: 

2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
1/3 pound chunk slab bacon, cubed 
1 onion, chopped  
4 cloves garlic, crushed
2 large bay leaves 
1 teaspoon black peppercorn 
1 teaspoon juniper berries (optional) 
3 cups spicy red wine 
2 cups ruby port 
An herb bundle of a few stems rosemary, parsley and thyme 
Ice 
4 pieces skin-on, boneless chicken thighs, halved 
4 pieces skin-on, boneless chicken breasts, cut in thirds 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
4 eggs, beaten 
1 1/2 cups panko breadcrumbs 
1 cup breadcrumbs 
Salt and pepper 
2 teaspoons granulated garlic 
2 teaspoons granulated onion 
2 teaspoons ground poultry seasoning, such as Bell’s 
1/4 cup combined thyme, rosemary and parsley, finely chopped 
Frying oil such as safflower or canola, 3-4 cups 
Thermometer for skillet frying or tabletop fryer 
For the Ranch Noodles: 

1 cup sour cream 
1/3 cup buttermilk 
Juice of 1/2 lemon 
2 teaspoons hot sauce 
1/2 cup finely chopped dill, parsley and chives 
1 large clove garlic, grated 
Salt and pepper 
4 tablespoons butter, cut into small pieces 
1 pound extra wide egg noodles 
1 cup grated Parm cheesePreparation 
Preparation 
For the marinade, heat oil in a saucepot, add bacon and render 1-2 minutes. Add onions, garlic, bay, peppercorns, juniper berries if using, wine, port and the herb bundle, and bring to a boil. Remove pot from heat and quickly cool to room temp by setting the pot in an ice-water bath. 

Double-bag 2 gallon-size baggies and fill with marinade and chicken pieces. Refrigerate 1-2 days. 

Remove chicken from marinade and pat it dry. Strain the marinade and place it in a pot. Bring sauce to a boil and reduce it down to about 3/4 cup. 

In a Dutch oven, heat oil to 350°F. 

Set up a breading station with flour in one shallow dish, eggs in another and breadcrumbs and panko in a third. Season the flour with salt, pepper, granulated garlic and onion, and poultry seasoning. Season eggs with salt and pepper. Season breadcrumbs with salt and pepper and fresh herbs. Dredge chicken first in the flour mixture, then the egg mixture and then the breadcrumb mixture. Add carefully to hot oil and fry chicken to deep golden and crispy. Keep fried chicken crispy and warm in a low oven while you fry the rest. 

For the noodles, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil for the noodles. 

In a bowl, whisk together the sour cream, buttermilk, lemon juice, hot sauce, herbs, garlic, salt and pepper. 

Cook egg noodles about 5 minutes, drain and add butter to hot pot to melt. Add noodles, toss to coat in butter, then add dressing and Parm cheese, and toss again. Adjust salt and pepper to taste. 

Serve chicken with noodles alongside. 

CHICKEN 

START RECIPE
Seafood Fra Diavolo with Linguini 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 20, 2017 

Seafood Fra Diavolo with Linguini 
Serves 6
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
1 pound large shrimp (heads intact, unpeeled) 
About 5 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil, divided 
1 leek, quartered 
2 large bay leaves 
A few peppercorns 
1 lemon, 1/2 sliced 
About 2 cups chicken stock 
A pinch saffron threads 
3 shallots, finely chopped 
4 large cloves garlic, finely chopped 
2 tablespoons sun-dried tomato paste 
2 tablespoons fresh thyme, chopped 
1 teaspoon sugar 
2 teaspoons (2/3 palmful) chili flakes or 1 tablespoon Calabrian chili paste 
1/2 cup dry vermouth or white wine 
2 tablespoons butter
1 28-ounce can crushed Italian tomatoes 
About 1/2 pound calamari bodies, cut into 1/4-inch rings 
18 mussels, cleaned 
1 pound linguini 
Preparation 
Clean, peel and devein the shrimp saving the heads and shells.

Drizzle 1 tablespoon EVOO in a saucepot and toast the shrimp shells and heads. Add leek, bay leaves, peppercorns and a couple of slices of lemon. Cover with stock and add saffron threads. Bring to boil then reduce heat to a simmer. Reduce by half. 

Bring a large pot of water to a boil for the pasta. 

Heat a large pan over medium-high heat with 2 tablespoons of EVOO, 2 turns of the pan. Add shrimp and sear 1 minute on each side then remove from pan. Dress shrimp with lemon juice from remaining half lemon. Return pan to heat, add 2 tablespoons more EVOO, shallots and garlic, and swirl or stir 2 minutes. Add tomato paste, thyme, sugar and chili flakes or chili paste, stir a minute more and add dry vermouth or wine. 

Strain saffron-shrimp stock and add to pan then swirl in butter to melt. Stir tomatoes into sauce and bring to a simmer. Add mussels, calamari and shrimp then cover and cook 7-8 minutes to open mussels and cook shrimp through. 

While seafood cooks, cook linguine in salted boiling water to al dente, reserve 1/2 cup cooking water then drain. 

Toss pasta with sauce and starchy cooking water, transfer to serving platter and serve. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Stuffed Artichokes 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 20, 2017 

Stuffed Artichokes 
Serves 6 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
3 medium-large artichokes, stems and tips of leaves trimmed 
1 lemon, halved 
About 1/2 cup EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
4 tablespoons butter, cut into pieces 
12 anchovy fillets 
8 to 10 garlic cloves, chopped 
2 teaspoons red pepper flakes 
1 teaspoon black pepper 
About 4 cups breadcrumbs 
1 cup each grated Pecorino and Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 
1 cup packed parsley and mint leaves, finely chopped 
Preparation 
Fill a pot large enough to fit the artichokes with water. Rub the trimmed artichokes with lemon halves then squeeze lemons into the water. Add artichokes and bring to a boil. 

Cook the artichokes until leaves are tender and you can just peel one away from base. Cold-shock the artichokes and drain upside down. Remove the center leaves and use a grapefruit spoon or a soup spoon to scrape out the choke from center. 

Heat a large skillet over medium heat with EVOO. Melt butter into oil and add anchovies, breaking them up until they melt away. Add garlic and red and black pepper, stir a minute or so, then add breadcrumbs. Let them absorb the oil and butter then toast until deep golden and fragrant. Cool. 

Preheat oven to 425°F. 

Combine cheese and parsley and mint and mix in cooled breadcrumbs. 

Add 1/8-inch chicken stock or water to a casserole dish. Fill the artichokes with the breadcrumb mixture, stuffing between each leaf and filling the center. Place artichokes in the casserole dish and bake to heat through and until edges of leaves curl in and brown, about 20 minutes. 

START RECIPE
Salty Butterscotch Dark Hot Chocolate 
By Andrew Kaplan  •  December 19, 2017 

Salty Butterscotch Dark Hot Chocolate 
Makes 2 cups 
Ingredients 
1 cup heavy cream, optional 
Pinch powdered sugar, optional 
4 oz. dark chocolate (plus a little more for garnish, optional) 
2 teaspoons butterscotch sauce/topping, plus more for garnish 
2 cups milk 
1/4 – 1/2 teaspoon salt 
Flaky salt, garnish, optional 
Preparation 
Place heavy cream in a stand mixer and whip on high speed. Add a few pinches of powdered sugar and whip until medium or stiff peaks form. If you do not have a stand mixer, you may use a handheld mixer – or if using a whisk, beat by hand. When finished, place in fridge until ready to use. 

Place a small nonstick saucepot or skillet over low heat and add the dark chocolate and butterscotch. Gently stir with a whisk until melted and then slowly add the milk. Whisk until smooth and incorporated and heated through- no need to boil. When steaming, add 1/4 teaspoon of salt and stir to dissolve. Taste the hot chocolate and if you want a little more salt, add the remaining 1/4 teaspoon and stir. 

Divide between 2 mugs, place a dollop of whipped cream on top and garnish with a drizzle of butterscotch sauce and/or a light dusting of flaky salt. 

[This recipe is part of a sponsorship with our partner, Trane.] 

DRINKS FEEDBACK 

START RECIPE
Eggnog White Hot Chocolate 
By Andrew Kaplan  •  December 19, 2017 

Eggnog White Hot Chocolate 
Makes 2 cups 
Ingredients 
1 cup heavy cream, optional 
Pinch powdered sugar, optional 
4 oz. white chocolate 
Tiny pinch of salt 
1 cup eggnog 
1 cup milk 
Pinch ground cinnamon 
1-2 shots of whisky or bourbon 
Mini candy canes, for garnish 
Preparation 
Place heavy cream in a stand mixer and whip on high speed. Add a few pinches of powdered sugar and whip until medium or stiff peaks form. If you do not have a stand mixer, you may use a handheld mixer – or if using a whisk, beat by hand. When finished, place in fridge until ready to use. 

Place a small nonstick saucepot or skillet over low heat and add the white chocolate and a tiny pinch of salt. Gently stir with a whisk until melted and then slowly add the eggnog, milk, and cinnamon. Whisk until smooth and incorporated and heated through- no need to boil. If you need an extra umph, and are of age, add a shot of whisky. 

Divide between 2 mugs, place a dollop of whipped cream on top and garnish with a sprinkle of cinnamon and/or a mini candy cane. 

[This recipe is part of a sponsorship with our partner, Trane.] 

DRINKS FEEDBACK 

START RECIPE
Peanut Butter Hot Chocolate 
By Andrew Kaplan  •  December 19, 2017 

Peanut Butter Hot Chocolate 
Makes 2 cups 
Ingredients 
1 cup heavy cream, optional 
Pinch powdered sugar, optional 
4 oz. milk or dark chocolate 
1/2 – 1 Tablespoon smooth peanut butter 
Tiny pinch of salt 
2 cups milk 
1 Tablespoon peanut butter or toffee chips, option garnish 
Preparation 
Place heavy cream in a stand mixer and whip on high speed. Add a few pinches of powdered sugar and whip until medium or stiff peaks form. If you do not have a stand mixer, you may use a handheld mixer – or if using a whisk, beat by hand. When finished, place in fridge until ready to use. 

Place a small nonstick saucepot or skillet over low heat and add the chocolate, peanut butter, and a tiny pinch of salt. Gently stir with a whisk until melted, and then slowly add the milk. Whisk until smooth and incorporated and heated through- no need to boil. 

Divide between 2 mugs. Place a dollop of whipped cream on top and garnish with peanut butter chips or toffee chips. 

[This recipe is part of a sponsorship with our partner, Trane.] 

DRINKS FEEDBACK 

START RECIPE
Spaghetti Aglio e Olio (Garlic and Oil) with Broccoli Rabe, Preserved Lemon and Breadcrumbs 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 18, 2017 

Spaghetti Aglio e Olio (Garlic and Oil) with Broccoli Rabe, Preserved Lemon and Breadcrumbs 
Serves 4 to 6 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
1 1/2 cups coarse, homemade breadcrumbs from Italian or white bread 
4 tablespoons melted butter 
1/2 cup flat-leaf parsley, chopped 
Salt 
1 bunch broccoli rabe, trimmed of tough ends 
1/2 cup EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
8 anchovy filets 
6 large cloves garlic, chopped or thinly sliced
2 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes or a spoonful of Calabrian chili paste 
1/2 cup dry vermouth 
1 pound spaghetti 
1/4 cup finely chopped preserved lemon plus a splash of brine 
1 cup loosely packed freshly grated Pecorino cheese (optional) 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 400°F. Toss breadcrumbs with melted butter then spread on a baking sheet. Toast breadcrumbs to deep golden. Cool and toss with parsley.  

Bring a large pot of water to a boil for the pasta. 

Meanwhile, bring a few inches of water to a boil in a deep-sided skillet. Salt water and blanch broccoli rabe 4-5 minutes. Cool and chop into 1-inch pieces. 

In a large skillet over medium to medium-high heat, heat EVOO, 6 slow turns of the pan. Add anchovies and melt them into oil: add garlic and chili flakes. Stir a minute or two then add dry vermouth. Reduce heat to low. 

Cook pasta to 1 minute less than directions for al dente. Reserve 1/2 cup starchy cooking water before draining. 

Add broccoli rabe to sauce along with preserved lemon and brine. 

Toss pasta with sauce and reserved starchy water. Top with breadcrumbs and cheese, if using. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Winter-Spiced Butternut Risotto with Sausage, Sage and Walnuts 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 15, 2017 

Winter-Spiced Butternut Risotto with Sausage, Sage and Walnuts 
Serves 4 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the spice blend: 

1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon fennel pollen or ground fennel 
1/4 teaspoon white pepper 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 
1 cup walnut pieces 
1 whole bulb garlic 
Olive oil, for drizzling plus 2 tablespoons 
1 butternut squash, halved and seeded 
6 cups chicken stock 
1 chunk Parmigiano-Reggiano rind 
1 pound sweet sausage with fennel, casings removed 
1 onion, finely chopped 
1 1/2 cups white wine 
1 1/2 cups carnaroli or arborio rice 
6 tablespoons butter 
A small bunch (about 16) sage leaves 
About 1 cup freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 325°F.

Combine spice blend in a small bowl and reserve. 

Spread walnuts on a baking sheet and transfer to oven to toast. Remove and raise heat to 425°F. 

Cut the top off the garlic bulb to expose cloves. Drizzle with oil and wrap in foil. Place squash on a baking sheet, drizzle with oil and season with about half of the spice blend. Place foil-wrapped garlic and squash in the oven and roast about 40-45 minutes until the garlic is soft and the squash is tender. Cool to handle. 

Squeeze garlic cloves from their skins into a small bowl and paste: reserve. Scoop squash flesh from skin and purée in a food processor: reserve. 

Bring stock with Parm rind to a simmer in a saucepot over medium heat. Reduce heat and keep warm. 

Heat a drizzle of oil, half a turn of the pan, in a round-bottomed pan or a risotto pot over medium-high heat. Add sausage and brown and crumble: remove to plate. Add about 2 tablespoons to the pan along with the onions. Stir to soften, 3 minutes, then add rice and season with remaining spice blend. Toast rice a minute or 2 then add wine. Stir to evaporate then add roasted garlic paste and about 1/3 of the stock. Stir vigorously, letting the stock absorb fully before repeating the process until stock is incorporated, about 18 minutes. 

In a small pan, melt butter. Add sage leaves and brown butter while sage leaves crisp: remove leaves to paper towel. 

To finish risotto, stir in the squash purée, 3/4 of the walnuts, the brown butter, cheese and half of the sage, crumbled. 

Serve risotto in shallow bowls garnished with remaining walnuts and crumbled sage. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
U.K. Nachos: Welsh Rarebit Toasts with Toppings Bar 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 13, 2017 

U.K. Nachos: Welsh Rarebit Toasts with Toppings Bar 
Serves 6 to 8 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the Rarebit Sauce: 

4 tablespoons butter 
4 tablespoons flour 
1 bottle beer, such as Guinness 
4 cups yellow/orange sharp cheddar cheese, shredded 
2 teaspoons dried mustard 
1 teaspoon smoked paprika 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
Hot sauce, such as Tabasco or cayenne pepper, to taste 
12 slices whole grain, white and/or sourdough bread, sliced and toasted (I broil mine in the center of my oven on each side.) 
For toppings: 

Smoky bacon, baked on a slotted pan or rack-lined baking sheet at 375°F until crisp 
Pickled shallots or red onions (2 large shallots or 1 small red onion tossed with 1/2 cup red wine or cider vinegar, 1 tablespoon sugar and sea salt) 
Broccolini, tossed with salt, pepper, olive oil and red pepper flakes, and roasted 
Thick-cut (1/4-inch) slices beefsteak tomatoes with salt and pepper, grilled 
Crispy or fresh sage leaves 
Speck or cotto ham 
Fried eggs with salt and pepper or hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
Watercress 
Baby bib or gem lettuce, tossed in a lemon vinaigrette 
Grainy Dijon mustard 
Mango chutney, such as Patak’s 
Smoked almonds, chopped 
Chives, chopped 
Radishes, shaved or cut into matchsticks and sautéed in warm butter or served raw 
Preparation 
For the sauce, heat a small, cast-iron pot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Add butter and melt: whisk in flour then beer and reduce a minute or 2. Bring to a boil, stir in cheese and add seasonings. 

Halve toasted bread corner to corner to make toast points, arrange on baking sheet/sheets, top with sauce and broil to brown cheese, serve immediately with toppings of choice. 

NACHOS 

START RECIPE
Beef Pot Pie with Cheddar Crust 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 12, 2017 

Beef Pot Pie with Cheddar Crust 
Serves 4 to 6 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the filling: 

2 1/2 pounds trimmed chuck, cut into about 1-inch cubes 
3 to 4 tablespoons olive oil 
Salt and pepper 
4 tablespoons butter 
1 large or 2 medium parsnips, peeled and cut into 1-inch dice 
1 large or 2 medium carrots, peeled and cut into 1-inch dice 
1 medium to large onion, cut into 1-inch dice 
1 potato, peeled and cut into 1-inch dice 
2 to 3 ribs celery from heart with leafy tops, cut into 1-inch pieces 
1 herb bundle of thyme, sage and parsley 
1 large bay leaf 
3 tablespoons flour 
1/2 cup white wine 
2 cups beef stock 
1 tablespoon Tamari/soy sauce 
2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 
1/4 cup cloudy cider 
2 medium Honeycrisp or Gala apples, peeled and cut into 1-inch dice 
For the dough: 

2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 stick cold butter, diced 
1 teaspoon sugar 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon white pepper or dry mustard 
1/8 teaspoon nutmeg, freshly grated 
4 to 5 tablespoons ice water (use a cocktail shaker to get it really cold) 
1 cup shredded sharp cheddar cheese 
1 egg, beaten cheese to dress pasta and serve at table 
12 to 16 ounces egg tagliatelle, fettuccine or semolina pappardelle 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 350°F. 

Heat a Dutch oven over high heat. Season the meat with salt and pepper, and brown in batches to avoid crowding the pan. Remove and reserve. 

Lower heat a bit, melt in butter and add vegetables, herbs salt and pepper, and cook until soft, 10 minutes. Sprinkle in flour, cook 1 minute then deglaze pan with wine. Add stock, soy, Worcestershire, cider and reserved beef, bring to boil, cover and transfer to oven. Roast 75 minutes remove and raise oven temp to 400°F. Scrape the bottom of the pan and add a little stock or water if necessary. Stir in apples and roast 30 minutes more. Remove from oven, stir and remove bay and herbs. 

While the beef is cooking, make the dough: Add flour, butter, sugar, salt, pepper or mustard, and nutmeg to a food processor and pulse to combine butter into flour. Add enough ice water to form dough: add cheese and pulse. Press dough together, wrap and chill at least 30 minutes. 

To make the pot pie, transfer beef filling to a large, casserole dish. Roll out the chilled dough in a large circle on a lightly floured surface. Brush the edge of the casserole dish with egg wash and lay dough on top of beef. Press and crimp around the edges. Trim off the excess and cut a small 1-inch round hole at the center to vent. 

Place casserole in oven and bake to golden, about 20-30 minutes. Let stand 10-15 minutes before serve. 

START RECIPE
Winter-Spiced Meat Sauce with Pasta Ribbons 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 11, 2017 

Winter-Spiced Meat Sauce with Pasta Ribbons 
Serves 4 to 6 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the sauce: 

2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
2 tablespoons butter 
1 pound ground lamb, ground beef or ground turkey (white and dark meat) 
Salt and pepper 
1 yellow onion, finely chopped 
3 cloves garlic, finely chopped or grated 
1 large fresh bay leaf 
1 wide strip orange rind 
1 small cinnamon stick 
4 to 6 (a scant teaspoon) whole juniper berries (optional) 
1 1/2 teaspoons (1/2 scant palmful) dried oregano 
1 1/2 teaspoons (1/2 scant palmful) fennel seed 
1 to 1 1/2 teaspoons red chili pepper flakes (depending on desired level of spice) 
2 tablespoons sun-dried tomato paste or tomato paste 
1 rounded teaspoon sugar or Acacia (light in color and flavor) honey 
1 cup dry Italian white wine, one with a D.O.C.G. label 
1 cup chicken stock 
1 28-ounce can Italian San Marzano tomatoes 
A few leaves fresh basil, torn 
1 piece/chunk Parmigiano-Reggiano rind plus grated cheese to dress pasta and serve at table 
12 to 16 ounces egg tagliatelle, fettuccine or semolina pappardelle 
Preparation 
Heat a Dutch oven, cast-iron pot or deep skillet over medium to medium-high heat. Add EVOO, 2 turns of the pan, then melt butter into oil. Add meat and brown, season with salt and pepper. Add onions, garlic, bay, orange rind, cinnamon, juniper (if using), oregano, fennel and red pepper flakes, and partially cover. Cook 5 minutes to soften, stirring occasionally. Add tomato paste, stir 1 minute then add wine and let it absorb almost completely. Add stock and tomatoes, breaking them up with a spoon. Bring to a bubble, reduce heat to a simmer and add a few leaves of torn basil and the cheese rind. Simmer sauce 30 minutes to break down tomatoes, thicken sauce and marry the flavors. 

Meanwhile, bring a large pot of water to a boil for pasta. Liberally salt the water and cook pasta a minute or so less than recommendation on package for al dente. Reserve about 1 cup of starchy cooking water then drain pasta and return it to the hot pot. Remove bay leaf, cheese rind and orange peel from the sauce then toss pasta ribbons with starchy cooking water, half the sauce and a handful of cheese. 

Serve pasta in shallow bowls topped with additional sauce, passing more cheese at table. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Umami Marinara 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 8, 2017 

Umami Marinara 
Serves Makes about 3 1/2 cups 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
3 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
3 anchovy filets 
3 cloves garlic, grated or finely chopped 
3 tablespoons sun-dried tomato paste 
1/2 cup sweet vermouth or red wine 
1/2 cup chicken stock or water 
1 teaspoon dried oregano or marjoram 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) red chili flakes 
1 28-ounce can crushed Italian tomatoes 
Preparation 
Heat EVOO in a saucepan or deep skillet over medium heat. Melt anchovies into oil, add garlic and stir a minute. Add paste and stir a minute more. Add vermouth or wine and stir then add stock or broth and oregano or marjoram, chili flakes and tomatoes. Simmer sauce 20 minutes to combine flavors. 

SAUCES AND GRAVIES 

START RECIPE
Sweet Sausage and Broccoli Rabe Meatballs 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 8, 2017 

Sweet Sausage and Broccoli Rabe Meatballs 
Serves 6 to 8 as starter or party app 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
Salt 
1 bunch broccoli rabe/Rapini, trimmed of tough ends 
1 1/2 pounds (6 links) sweet Italian sausage with fennel seed, casings removed 
1 cup homemade breadcrumbs, moistened with whole milk 
2 egg yolks, lightly beaten 
A handful parsley, chopped 
1 tablespoon lemon zest 
4 cloves garlic, grated or finely chopped 
1 cup grated Pecorino Romano cheese 
2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 425°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment.

Bring a few inches of water to a boil in a deep skillet or pot. Salt water, add broccoli rabe and cook 4-5 minutes. Drain, cool and chop. 

Place sausage in a bowl. Squeeze excess liquid from the breadcrumbs then add to sausage along with the chopped broccoli rabe, egg yolks, parsley, lemon zest, garlic, grated cheese and EVOO. Use a small scoop to form 2-inch meatballs, arranging them on the parchment-lined sheet as you go. Transfer to oven and roast to golden and cooked through, about 15-18 minutes. 

START RECIPE
Hot Sausage and Beef “Pizzaiola” Meatballs 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 8, 2017 

Hot Sausage and Beef “Pizzaiola” Meatballs 
Serves 6-8 as starter or party offering 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
3/4 pound ground beef 
Salt and pepper 
About 1/2 cup fresh or panko breadcrumbs, moistened with whole milk 
4 cloves garlic, grated or finely chopped 
2 tablespoons sun-dried tomato paste 
1/4 cup (a handful) flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped 
1 cup loosely packed freshly grated Pecorino Romano cheese 
2 large egg yolks, beaten 
3/4 pound (3 links) hot Italian sausage, casings removed 
About 3 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
1 ball smoked mozzarella or scamorza cheese, cut into bite-sized pieces 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 425°F. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper. 

Place beef in a mixing bowl and season with salt and pepper. Squeeze excess liquid from the breadcrumbs and add them to the beef along with the garlic, tomato paste, parsley, cheese and egg yolks. Mix with your hands slightly then combine with hot sausage and EVOO. 

With a small scoop, grab some meat mix then nest in a piece of smoked cheese. Wrap meat around the cheese and roll into about 2 1/2-inch balls. Arrange meatballs on the parchment-lined baking sheet and roast until browned and cooked through, about 18 minutes. 

START RECIPE
Polenta Arancini 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 7, 2017 

Polenta Arancini 
Serves 6 to 8 appetizer/party snack servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
2 cups chicken or vegetable stock 
2 cups whole milk 
1 1/4 cups quick cooking polenta 
Salt 
About 1 1/2 teaspoons coarse black pepper 
About 1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 
4 tablespoons butter, cut into pieces 
1 1/2 cups freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese, divided 
2 tablespoons Acacia (light in color and flavor) honey 
Flour, about 1 cup 
3 eggs, beaten 
2 cups Italian plain breadcrumbs 
2 tablespoons citrus zest, orange or lemon 
A small handful parsley, finely chopped 
Frying oil, such as safflower, canola or light/clear olive oil 
Preparation 
Bring stock and milk to low simmer in a saucepan over medium heat. Whisk in polenta and cook 3 minutes until it comes together. Add salt, pepper, nutmeg, honey and butter and 1 cup of cheese. Let cool (spread it out on a sheet pan to cool it down faster). 

Use a small scoop to roll arancini and coat them first in flour, then egg and then breadcrumbs combined with salt, pepper, citrus zest, parsley and remaining 1/2 cup cheese. 

Heat oil in a deep-sided skillet or Dutch oven to 350°F. Add arancini and cook to brown and crisp. 

Serve with Rach’s Sun-Dried Tomato Sauce alongside for dipping. 

START RECIPE
Meatballs with Mint and Garlic 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 7, 2017 

Meatballs with Mint and Garlic 
Serves 6-8 as appetizer or party snack 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
1 pound ground lamb 
1 pound ground beef 
Salt and pepper 
3 to 4 tablespoons grated onion (grate onion over the meat to catch the juices) 
4 cloves garlic, grated or finely chopped 
1 cup grated Pecorino cheese 
1 cup mint, loosely packed then finely chopped 
1 cup flat-leaf parsley, loosely packed then finely chopped 
Zest of 1 lemon 
2 egg yolks, beaten 
1 cup homemade white breadcrumbs, soaked in milk to moisten 
About 1/4 cup EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive OilPreparation 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 425°F. 

Place meats in a large bowl and season with salt and pepper. Grate 3-4 tablespoons of onion over the meat then add garlic, grated cheese, mint, parsley, lemon zest and egg yolks. Squeeze out the excess milk from the breadcrumbs and add them to the bowl along with the EVOO. Combine meatball mixture and roll into 2-inch balls using small scoop. Arrange meatballs on a parchment-lined baking sheet and bake to brown and cooked through, about 15-18 minutes. 

Serve with Rach’s Sun-Dried Tomato Sauce alongside for dipping. 

 

MEATBALL 

START RECIPE
Sun-Dried Tomato Sauce 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 7, 2017 

Sun-Dried Tomato Sauce 
Serves 6 to 8 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
2 cups loosely packed sun-dried tomatoes 
3 cups chicken stock or vegetable stock 
1/4 cup EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
3 tablespoons butter 
1 onion, finely chopped 
4 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1 large bay leaf 
Salt 
1 rounded teaspoon sugar or a drizzle Acacia honey 
1 1/2 teaspoons red chili flakes 
1 28-ounce can whole, peeled San Marzano tomatoes 
A few leaves fresh basil, torn 
Preparation 
Simmer sun-dried tomatoes in stock to reconstitute. Purée in a food processor. 

Heat a saucepot or Dutch oven over medium heat with EVOO, 4 turns of the pan. Melt butter into oil, add onions, garlic, bay and salt, and cook to very soft and translucent—do not brown. Add sugar or honey, chili flakes, tomatoes and basil, and simmer 20-30 minutes to break down tomatoes. 

Serve with Polenta Arancini and Meatballs with Mint and Garlic. 

SAUCES AND GRAVIES 

START RECIPE
Sweet and Smoky Casserole with Sausage, White Beans, Tomatoes and Rosemary 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 5, 2017 

Sweet and Smoky Casserole with Sausage, White Beans, Tomatoes and Rosemary 
Serves 4 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the beans: 

1 cup dried cannellini beans, soaked overnight or quick-soaked in boiling water for 1 hour 
1 onion, quartered 
1 large bay leaf 
Salt OR 2 15-ounce cans cannellini beans, rinsed 
8 links (2 pounds) sweet Italian sausage with fennel, pierced with a fork 
1 quart chicken stock 
2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
2 tablespoons butter 
1 onion, chopped 
2 ribs celery with leafy tops, chopped 
4 cloves garlic, thinly sliced or chopped 
Salt and pepper 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) dried oregano 
3 tablespoons rosemary, chopped, divided 
2 tablespoons sun-dried tomato paste or regular tomato paste 
1 cup white wine 
1 15-ounce can diced fire-roasted tomatoes 
2 cups passata or tomato purée 
1 1/2 cups shredded smoked mozzarella or Scamorza cheese 
Crusty bread, to pass at table 
Preparation 
If using dried beans, add soaked beans to a saucepot with the onion, bay leaf and some salt. Add enough water to cover by a few inches and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for about an hour, until the beans are tender. Discard onions and bay, and drain. 

Preheat oven to 400°F. 

In a skillet, cover sausages with stock and bring to boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook sausages through, reducing stock by half. 

Meanwhile, heat a large, deep skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat with EVOO. Add butter and onions, celery, garlic, oregano and 2 tablespoons of rosemary. Cook to soften onions and celery, 7-8 minutes. Add tomato paste and stir another minute: add wine and let it reduce and almost evaporate into vegetables. Add tomatoes, passata or purée, the beans and stock from sausages. Reduce heat to a simmer. 

Crisp sausage casings in a drizzle of oil in the pan you cooked them in (you will have poured the stock into the vegetables). Cut sausages on bias. 

Transfer beans and sauce to an oiled or buttered casserole then stir in or nest sausages. Top casserole with cheese and remaining tablespoon rosemary. Bake to brown and bubbly, about 15 minutes. Serve with warm bread for mopping. 

START RECIPE
Penne al Forno con Polpettine e Rapini (Baked Pasta with Small, Spicy Meatballs and Broccoli Rabe) 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 4, 2017 

Penne al Forno con Polpettine e Rapini (Baked Pasta with Small, Spicy Meatballs and Broccoli Rabe) 
Serves 6 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the meatballs: 
1 pound 80% lean ground beef or 1/2 pound ground sirloin and 1/2 pound ground pork 
Kosher salt 
2 large cloves garlic, grated or finely chopped 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) fennel seed 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) crushed red pepper flakes 
About 1/4 cup (a healthy handful) grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 
About 1/4 cup (a healthy handful) grated Pecorino Romano cheese 
3 slices stale bread, crusts trimmed and crumbled into crumbs 
Milk, to soak bread 
1 egg, lightly beaten 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) dried oregano 
1/4 cup flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped 
A fat drizzle of good-quality EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
For the sauce: 

About 3 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
2 to 3 anchovy filets (optional) 
1 small onion, finely chopped 
2 large cloves garlic, grated or finely chopped 
1 cup chicken stock or water 
4 12- to 14-ounce cans or 2 28-ounce jars peeled, Italian cherry tomatoes or 2 28-ounce cans peeled, San Marzano tomatoes 
A few leaves of basil, torn 
1 large bunch broccoli rabe/rapini, trimmed 
Salt 
1 pound/500 grams penne rigate pasta 
1 pound Fior di Latte/fresh mozzarella, thinly sliced 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 400°F. 

For the meatballs, in a large bowl, combine meat with salt, garlic, fennel, red pepper flakes, grated cheeses, soaked breadcrumbs, beaten egg, oregano, parsley and EVOO. Roll small (1 1/2-inch in diameter) meatballs and arrange on a large parchment-lined baking sheet. Bake 10-12 minutes until lightly browned. 
For the sauce, heat a large pot or deep skillet over medium heat with EVOO, 3 turns of the pan. Add anchovies, if using, and melt them into the oil. Add onions and garlic, and cook to soften for 3-5 minutes. Add stock or water and bring to boil, reduce heat back to medium and let the liquid almost completely absorb, 7-8 minutes. Add tomatoes and break them up with a spoon. Add torn basil and let sauce simmer 30 minutes. Adjust salt to taste. 

While the sauce simmers, bring a few inches of water to a boil in a deep skillet. Salt water and cook broccoli rabe 5 minutes: transfer to an ice water bath with tongs or a spider to cold-shock. Drain, dry and coarsely chop. 

Bring a large pot of water to a boil for the penne. Salt water generously and add pasta: cook 5 minutes. Drain and rinse pasta under cold water to stop the cooking process. Add pasta back to pot and toss with sauce, meatballs and rapini/broccoli rabe. Transfer to baking dish and top with sliced mozzarella cheese. (If making this dish ahead, cover and store in fridge or freezer. Bring pasta to room temperature before baking.) 

Bake pasta until bubbly and brown on top, about 30-40 minutes. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Red Cabbage, Beet and Apple Soup 
By Rachael Ray  •  December 1, 2017 

Red Cabbage, Beet and Apple Soup 
Serves 4 to 6 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
2 medium beets, trimmed 
EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
Salt and pepper 
For the croutons: 

4 tablespoons butter 
2 cups diced rye or pumpernickel bread 
1 teaspoon smoked sweet paprika 
2 tablespoons finely chopped flat-leaf parsley 
For the soup: 

2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
2 apples, peeled and coarsely grated or chopped 
1 large or 2 medium onions, chopped 
3 ribs celery with leafy tops, chopped 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) cumin seed 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) caraway seed 
6 juniper berries, crushed 
1 teaspoon ground allspice 
1 large bay leaf 
Salt and pepper 
2 cups apple cider 
1 pound very thinly shredded red cabbage (remove core and quarter it before slicing) 
1 quart chicken or vegetable stock 
Juice of 1 lemon 
For the Beet Horseradish Sour Cream: 

1 cup sour cream 
Juice of 1/2 lemon 
3 tablespoons Gold’s Beet Horseradish 
1/2 cup finely chopped dill, parsley and chives 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 425°F. Drizzle beets with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Wrap beets twice in foil and roast 60-75 minutes to tender. Let cool then peel off skins with paper towels. Chop peeled beets. 

For the croutons, heat oven to 350°F. Heat a skillet over medium-high heat, add butter and melt. When it foams, add bread and toss to coat in butter. Add paprika, salt and pepper, and toss to coat. Transfer croutons to a small baking sheet and bake to golden. Toss with parsley and cool. 

Heat a large soup pot over medium-high heat with EVOO, 2 turns of pan. Add apples, onions, celery, cumin, caraway, juniper, allspice, bay leaves, salt and pepper, and cook 8-10 minutes, partially covered, to soften, stirring occasionally. Add cider and deglaze then pan. Add cabbage and stock, and cover. Cook soup 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add beets and cook 15-30 more, stirring to wilt. Add lemon juice, remove bay leaves and adjust salt and pepper to taste. 

For the Beet Horseradish Sour Cream, combine sour cream with lemon, beet horseradish and herbs. Add salt to taste. 

Serve soup in shallow bowls topped with croutons and sour cream. 

SOUP 

START RECIPE
Big Bacon and Blue Burgers 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 29, 2017 

Big Bacon and Blue Burgers 
Serves 4 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
A drizzle olive or canola oil 
6 slices meaty bacon, chopped to finely chopped 
2 onions, quartered and thinly sliced lengthwise 
Salt and white pepper 
A fat drizzle (about 1 tablespoon) aged Balsamic (such as Aged RR Balsamic) 
Salt and coarse black pepper 
1 1/2 pounds 80% lean ground sirloin 
About 2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 
A handful of parsley, finely chopped 
2 cloves garlic, peeled and grated or finely chopped 
1/2 pound chunk crumbly smoked blue cheese or blue cheese (such as Oscar’s smoked blue), crumbled with a fork or your hands 
4 potato hamburger rolls (such as Martin’s), lightly toasted 
Trimmed watercress or Upland cress leaves 
Preparation 
Heat a cast-iron skillet over medium to medium-high heat, add chopped bacon and render 2-3 minutes until lightly crispy. Remove to a paper towel-lined plate and reserve about 2 tablespoons bacon fat in pan. 

Add onions to pan, lower heat and cook until light caramel in color, about 15-20 minutes, stirring frequently. (Add a splash of water if onions begin to brown.) Season with salt and white pepper. Finish onions with Balsamic vinegar. Remove the onions from the pan and wipe the pan clean. 

While the onions cook, in a bowl combine beef, Worcestershire, parsley and garlic. Carefully mix in the bacon without overworking the meat. Score meat into 4 portions then form 4 patties that are thinner at center than edges for even cooking. 

Return the clean pan to the heat with a drizzle of oil. Add patties and cook 4 minutes: turn and cook about 3 minutes more. 

Build burgers: On the roll bottoms, place some cress, a patty, blue cheese crumbles mounded up a bit, some warm onions and the bun tops. 

BURGERS 

START RECIPE
Big Boston Beans 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 29, 2017 

Big Boston Beans 
Serves 6 to 8 servings 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
2 cups dried white beans 
Salt 
4 spare ribs or 1 small rack baby back ribs 
Salt and pepper 
2 tablespoons olive or canola oil 
1 large onion, chopped 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
1 tablespoon dried mustard 
1 rounded teaspoon coarse black pepper 
1/4 cup each brown sugar and molasses 
2 large bay leaves 
Preparation 
Soak beans in a large bowl covered with 2 to 3 inches of water overnight OR soak them in boiling water for 1 hour. Drain beans and rinse. 

Heat oven to 250°F or a slow cooker to medium-high/high. 

Bring a medium pot or full teakettle to a boil. 

Heat a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat with oil, 2 turns of the pan. Season ribs with salt and pepper, and brown them evenly all over: remove. Add onions and stir 3-4 minutes to soften. Season with salt and add garlic, dried mustard, pepper, sugar and molasses, and bay leaves. Stir to coat and combine. Nest browned ribs in the pot under the onions then add beans and distribute them evenly over the ribs. Pour boiling water into the pot to come just up to the top, barely covering the beans. Cover the Dutch oven or transfer to the slow cooker and cook 4 hours. 

Remove ribs and bay leaves, and scrape meat from ribs. Add the meat back to the beans and serve. 

“These beans are a riff on a James Beard (not Bostonian) recipe, but it is amazing and holds a week or 10 days in fridge. And it It makes a great soup base — just add extra veg and stock, and give it a quick purée.” 

BEANS 

START RECIPE
Chicken Schnitzel and Applesauce with Parsnip Cakes and Horseradish Sauce, and Red Cabbage with Juniper 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 28, 2017 

Chicken Schnitzel and Applesauce with Parsnip Cakes and Horseradish Sauce, and Red Cabbage with Juniper 
Serves 4 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the cabbage: 

3/4- to1-pound red cabbage, cored and very thinly sliced 
1 small red onion, halved and thinly sliced 
Salt and black pepper 
1/4 cup cider vinegar 
1/4 cup light brown sugar 
6 juniper berries 
2 fresh bay leaves 
1 teaspoon each cumin seed and caraway seed 
For the applesauce: 

6 Honeycrisp or other sweet, crisp apples, peeled and cubed 
1 lemon 
2 cups apple cider 
2 tablespoons thyme, chopped 
A pinch of Kosher salt 
1 shot apple brandy, such as Calvados 
For the parsnip cakes: 

3 Russet potatoes, peeled and shredded 
Salt 
1 large or 2 medium parsnips, peeled and shredded 
Pepper 
2 large eggs, beaten 
4 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/4 cup parsley, finely chopped 
Cooking oil, such as safflower 
For the horseradish sauce: 

1 cup sour cream 
3 rounded tablespoons prepared horseradish (Rach uses Gold’s) 
1/4 cup finely chopped chives 
3 tablespoons finely chopped dill 
Salt and pepper 
4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts, tenders removed, butterflied and pounded to 1/4-inch thick 
1 1/2 cups flour 
Salt and white pepper or fine black pepper 
 

4 eggs 
2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
1/4 cup whole milk 
2 cups breadcrumbs 
2 tablespoons very thinly sliced sage leaves 
About 1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 
Zest of 1 lemon plus wedges of lemon to serve 
Frying oil, such as safflower or canola 
Preparation 
For the cabbage, place all ingredients in a medium pot, bring to a boil and cook 40-45 minutes, adding a little water if necessary, to very tender. Cover to keep warm. 

For the applesauce, place all ingredients in a medium pot and bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium and cook to a very tender, chunky sauce, about 20-25 minutes. 

Shred potatoes and place them in a fine mesh sieve. Sprinkle with salt and let them drain 20-30 minutes. 

Squeeze out all excess liquid from the potatoes and combine them with the shredded parsnips. Season with pepper and mix in eggs, flour and parsley. 

Combine ingredients for the Horseradish Sauce and chill until ready to serve. 

Heat 1/8-inch oil in a large skillet. Working in batches, add flattened handfuls of the potato-parsnip mixture to the hot oil and cook to golden brown. Keep warm in 250°F oven on a wire rack set into a baking sheet. 

Season the chicken with salt and pepper.   

Place flour in a shallow dish and season. Whisk eggs in a shallow dish with salt, pepper, mustard and milk. Toss breadcrumbs in a third shallow dish with sage, nutmeg, lemon zest and salt. Coat each chicken cutlet first in flour, then egg, then breadcrumbs. 

In a large skillet over medium to medium-high heat, heat oil. Fry cutlets 2 at a time, keeping them warm on a wire rack-lined pan in 250°F preheated oven. 

Serve cutlets with lemon wedges and applesauce, and Parsnip Cakes and Cabbage alongside. 

CHICKEN 

START RECIPE
Bottom-of-the-Pickle-Jar Michelada 
By John Cusimano  •  November 28, 2017 

Bottom-of-the-Pickle-Jar Michelada 
Serves 1 cocktail 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
Pickle juice from the bottom of the jar, strained 
Hot sauce, to taste 
2 to 3 ounces tomato juice 
1/2 ounce lemon juice 
1/2 ounce lime juice 
Black pepper, to taste 
1 bottle Mexican lager, chilled 
Preparation 
Rinse out the pickle jar (to get rid of any chunky bits left at the bottom of the jar) and add all ingredients. Garnish with lime wedge and serve in the pickle jar with a straw. 

COCKTAILS 

START RECIPE
Bloody Dirty Martini 
By John Cusimano  •  November 28, 2017 

Bloody Dirty Martini 
Serves 1 cocktail 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
Olive brine from the bottom of the jar 
1 ounce tomato juice 
3 ounces vodka 
1/2 ounce dry vermouth 
2 dashes hot pepper bitters (John uses Scrappy’s Firewater) 
Preparation 
To the bottom of the olive jar, add tomato juice, vodka, vermouth, bitters and some ice. Stir and strain into chilled martini glass. 

Serve garnished with an olive (pimento-stuffed olives would work well). 

COCKTAILS 

START RECIPE
Applesauce Whiskey Sour 
By John Cusimano  •  November 28, 2017 

Applesauce Whiskey Sour 
Serves 1 cocktail 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
Applesauce from the bottom of the jar 
2 1/2 ounces rye whiskey 
1 ounce lemon juice 
1/2 ounce cinnamon simple syrup (1 part water + 1 part sugar + cinnamon sticks heated until sugar dissolves then cooled) 
Preparation 
To the applesauce jar, add whiskey, lemon juice, simple syrup and some ice. Cover with jar lid, shake and DOUBLE strain with a normal cocktail strainer AND one of those mini cocktail strainers that look like tiny veggie strainers into a chilled coupe. 

Garnish with a nutmeg-dusted apple slice. 

COCKTAILS 

START RECIPE
Mamma Leone-Style Eggplant and Sausage Ragu 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 27, 2017 

Mamma Leone-Style Eggplant and Sausage Ragu 
Serves 4 to 6 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
1 medium to large firm and heavy eggplant, peel off half the skin lengthwise and cut into small bite-sized pieces (3/4-inch cubes) 
Salt 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 pound Italian sweet sausage with fennel seeds 
2 Italian red frying peppers, halved or 1 large red field pepper (sweet Bell-like pepper but more rectangular in shape), quartered lengthwise, seeded and thinly sliced or 2 small red bell peppers, quartered lengthwise, seeded and thinly sliced 
1 large or 2 medium onions, halved, peeled, quartered through root end and thinly sliced 
1/2 cup (a fat handful) flat-leaf parsley tops 
4 large cloves garlic 
1/2 cup white wine or water 
1 28-ounce can San Marzano tomatoes 
1 pound rigatoni with lines 
About 1/2 cup grated Parmigiano-Reggiano plus more for table to pass 
Green, fancy EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil, to serve 
Preparation 
Salt eggplant and let drain on kitchen towels or in a strainer for 20 minutes: pat dry. 

Bring a large pot of water to a boil for pasta. 

Heat a large pan over medium-high heat with the olive oil, 2 turns of the pan. Add sausage and brown, breaking it up as it cooks. Add eggplant, peppers and onions, and stir 8-10 minutes to soften. Finely chop parsley and garlic together, and add to pan. Stir in 1/2 cup wine or water and add tomatoes, breaking them up with spoon. Reduce heat and simmer 20 minutes. 

Salt boiling water and cook pasta to 1 minute shy of al dente per package directions. Reserve 1 cup cooking water and drain. Toss pasta with sauce, add starchy water, a drizzle of good EVOO and 1/2 cup cheese. 

Serve in shallow bowls and pass additional cheese at the table. 

PASTA 

START RECIPE
Posole Rojo with Turkey or Chicken 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 22, 2017 

Posole Rojo with Turkey or Chicken 
Serves 4 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
3 dried guajillo chiles or about 1/2 cup chiles de arbol, seeded and stemmed 
2 large dried ancho chiles, seeded and stemmed 
1 quart chicken stock, divided 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 large onion, chopped 
4 cloves garlic, chopped 
1 fresh bay leaf 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) ground cumin 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) dried oregano 
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) ground coriander 
1 pinch cinnamon 
Salt and pepper 
1 15- to 15.5-ounce can hominy, drained 
1 to 1 1/2 pounds cooked turkey or chicken, pulled/shredded 
Honey or agave syrup (optional) 
Juice of 1 lime (about 2 tablespoons) 
For toppings: chopped onion or thinly sliced scallions, sliced radishes, diced avocado dressed with lime, cilantro leaves and thinly shredded white or red cabbage 

Preparation 
In a small pot, toast the chiles over medium heat, turning them once or twice, about 1 minute. Add enough stock to just cover the chiles and simmer until softened, 10-15 minutes. Transfer the mixture to a food processor and purée. 

Meanwhile, in a Dutch oven, heat the oil, two turns of the pan, over medium heat. Add the onion, garlic, bay leaf, cumin, oregano, coriander and cinnamon. Season with salt and pepper, and cook, partially covered, stirring occasionally, until the onion softens, about 15 minutes. Add the hominy, turkey or chicken, chile purée, and the remaining stock. If the soup is too spicy, add a cup or so of water. Simmer until the flavors meld, just a few minutes. Salt to taste, remove the bay leaf and stir in the lime juice. 

Serve in shallow bowls with toppings of your choice. 

CHICKEN TURKEY 

START RECIPE
Roasted Squash 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 22, 2017 

Roasted Squash 
Serves 6 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
1 2- to 3-pound butternut squash, peeled 
4 tablespoons butter, melted 
Nutmeg, salt and pepper, to taste 
Preparation 
Preheat oven to 375°F. 

Cut the neck of the squash from the base. Cut the neck into 4 long quarters. Cut the base in half and scoop out the seeds. Dress with melted butter and season with nutmeg, salt and pepper. Toss and roast until browned, about 40-45 minutes. 

VEGETABLES 

START RECIPE
“The Day After” Skillet Turkey Chili with Cornbread Topper 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 20, 2017 

“The Day After” Skillet Turkey Chili with Cornbread Topper 
Serves 4 to 6 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the chili: 

2 tablespoons corn or canola oil 
6 slices meaty bacon, chopped 
1 yellow onion, chopped 
3 large cloves garlic, grated or finely chopped 
2 jalapeño peppers, chopped 
2 teaspoons (about 2/3 palmful) cumin 
2 teaspoons (about 2/3 palmful) coriander 
1 tablespoon (a palmful) chili powder, such as Gebhardt’s 
Salt and pepper 
1 cup fresh corn kernels or frozen Fire-Roasted Corn, defrosted 
About 1 1/2 pounds (4 cups) leftover turkey, shredded or chopped or pulled rotisserie chicken meat 
1 14-ounce can diced tomatoes with green chilies 
2 cups leftover gravy or turkey or chicken stock 
For the cornbread topper*: 

1/2 cup medium-grind cornmeal 
1/4 cup corn flour 
3/4 cups flour 
1/4 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1 teaspoon salt 
Black pepper, to taste 
1/4 cup milk 
1/4 cup sour cream 
1/4 cup corn oil, divided 
2 tablespoons butter, melted and cooled 
1 egg 
1 1/2 cups shredded sharp yellow cheddar cheese 
2 to 3 scallions, whites and greens, chopped 
*FOR A SHORTCUT: Prepare 1 box/bag corn muffin mix, such as Jiffy, according to package directions 

Preparation 
Preheat oven to 400°F 

For the chili, heat a 12-inch cast-iron skillet or oven-safe skillet over medium-high heat with the oil. Add bacon and render 2-3 minutes. Add onions, garlic, jalapeño peppers, cumin, coriander, chili powder, salt and pepper, and stir to toast spices. Cook 7-8 minutes to soften, stirring frequently. Add turkey or chicken, tomatoes and gravy or stock. Reduce heat to low to keep at barely a simmer. 

Mix cornbread topper: Combine dry ingredients then add wet to dry and stir to combine. Pour batter over chili, transfer skillet to oven and bake 10-12 minutes until golden. Top with cheese in even layer and bake to brown and bubble. 

Serve chili directly from the skillet topped with chopped scallions. 

TURKEY 

START RECIPE
Beef Cacciatore 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 20, 2017 

Beef Cacciatore 
Serves 6 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
2 1/2 to 3 pounds beef top, bottom round or trimmed chuck, cut into 2- to 3-inch cubes 
Kosher salt and black pepper 
About 1/2 cup olive oil 
3 ribs celery with leafy tops, sliced on a bias into 1-inch pieces 
2 large onions, chopped into 1-inch dice 
2 mild frying peppers, red or green, seeded and cut into 1-inch slices 
1 cup good quality, dried Porcini mushrooms, coarsely broken up 
4 large cloves garlic, sliced 
1 teaspoon fennel seeds 
1 teaspoon red chili flakes 
1 rounded teaspoon sugar or a fat drizzle Acacia honey 
Herb bundle of rosemary, sage and parsley 
2 cups red wine 
2 cups chicken or beef stock 
1 28-ounce can crushed or diced tomatoes 
Preparation 
Bring meat to room temp and season with salt and pepper. Set a rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat to 325°F. 

Heat a large Dutch oven over medium-high to high heat. Add olive oil, to coat bottom lightly. Brown meat all over in 2 batches and remove. 

Add a little more olive oil to the pan and reduce heat to medium-high. Add celery, onions, peppers, mushrooms, garlic, fennel seeds, chili flakes, sugar or honey, herb bundle and salt, and cook to soften 7-8 minutes. Add wine and reduce by half. Add stock and tomatoes, and bring to boil. Add reserved meat back to the pan and cover. Transfer to oven and cook 2-2 1/2 hours until meat is tender. 

Remove herb bundle and serve with bread, Garlicky Mashed Potatoes or polenta alongside. 

BEEF 

START RECIPE
Tomato-Vegetable Soup and Grilled Four-Cheese Soldiers 
By Rachael Ray  •  November 16, 2017 

Tomato-Vegetable Soup and Grilled Four-Cheese Soldiers 
Serves 4 
This recipe originally appeared on the Rachael Ray Show. For more recipes and videos from the show visit RachaelRayShow.com. 

Ingredients 
For the soup: 

2 tablespoons EVOO – Extra Virgin Olive Oil 
2 tablespoons butter 
1 small bulb fennel, chopped 
1 carrot, chopped 
1 onion, chopped 
2 ribs celery with leafy tops, chopped 
4 cloves garlic, crushed 
Salt and pepper 
1 teaspoon sugar or Acacia honey 
1 large bay leaf 
1 Parm rind 
2 cups chicken or vegetable stock 
1 28-ounce can San Marzano tomatoes 
1 quart (box or jar) passata or purée 
A few leaves of basil, torn 
For the Grilled Four-Cheese: 

6 tablespoons softened butter or 1/2 cup Fabainse (aka aquafaba spread) or mayonnaise 
About 1 cup grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 
1 clove garlic, pasted or finely grated 
About 2 tablespoons flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped 
8 slices good quality white bread 
8 slices mild provolone cheese 
8 slices white American cheese, such as Cooper’s Sharp American 
8 slices deli mozzarella or mild Fontina 
Preparation 
In a soup pot over medium to medium-high heat, melt butter into EVOO, 2 turns of the pan. Add fennel, carrot, onions, celery and garlic, and season with salt, pepper, sugar or honey, bay and Parm rind. Cover to sweat 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, then add stock and raise heat. Reduce by half, 2-3 minutes, then add tomatoes, passata and basil. Simmer 30 minutes over medium-low heat, remove bay leaf and purée with immersion blender. Adjust salt and pepper to taste. 

For the sandwiches, heat a nonstick pan or griddle over medium heat. Combine butter, Fabainse or mayo with cheese, garlic and parsley. Lightly coat one side of each of the slices of bread and, with spread-covered sides facing out, build sandwiches with a slice each of provolone, American and mozzarella or Fontina. Grill the cheese sandwiches until deeply golden and melty. Cut each sandwich into 3 sticks or ‘soldiers”. 

Serve crocks or bowls of tomato soup with soldiers alongside for dipping. 

SAMMIES SOUP WRAPS AND SUBS 


Asian Mushroom Soup  
0 Reviews 
Recipe courtesy of Dave Lieberman 
 


Yield: 8 to 10 servings
al Analysis 
Per Serving 
Calories 125 Total Fat 6 grams Saturated Fat 1 grams Cholesterol 0 milligrams Sodium 975 milligrams Carbohydrates 14 grams Dietary Fiber 4 grams Protein 7 grams Sugar 6 grams 

Ingredients 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil  
4 garlic cloves, thinly sliced 
1 (2-inch piece) fresh ginger, peeled and thinly sliced  
2 quarts reduced-sodium chicken broth  
3 tablespoons soy sauce 
2 tablespoons fish sauce, optional 
2 portobello mushrooms, caps peeled, cleaned and thinly sliced 
5-ounces cremini mushrooms, thinly sliced 
10 small shiitake mushrooms, cleaned and left whole
Outer leaves of 1 small Napa cabbage or 1/2 large cabbage, leaves roughly torn 
2 carrots, peeled, cut in 1/2 lengthwise then in 1/2 crosswise, and very thinly sliced 
2 good handfuls snow peas 
1 small bunch scallions, thinly sliced 
Dark sesame oil 


Directions 
Heat the oil in a large saucepan over medium heat and cook the garlic and ginger until browned. Combine the broth, soy sauce, and fish sauce, if using, to the saucepan and bring to a simmer. Add the remaining ingredients except the snow peas, scallions, and sesame oil. Simmer for 20 minutes, and then add the snow peas. Cook for just a few minutes longer, until the snow peas have softened but are still bright green. Add the scallions to the saucepan, remove from heat, and ladle into serving bowls. Drizzle a bit of sesame oil over the top of each serving. 

Categories: 
Saucepan Soup Cabbage Vegetables Mushroom Side Dish Simmer 


Recipe: Fried Potatoes and Sausage Skillet 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 4 
1 pound Yukon gold potatoes, cut into 1-inch chunks  
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, divided  
2 tablespoons olive oil, divided  
1 pound uncooked pork sausage, casings removed  
1 medium red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and cut into 1-inch pieces  
2 cloves garlic, minced  
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper  
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes  
Juice from 1 medium lemon  
Fresh parsley leaves  
Place the potatoes in a large saucepan, cover by 1 inch with cold water, and add 1/4 teaspoon of the salt. Bring to a boil over high heat, then cook just until the potatoes are fork-tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Drain the potatoes: set aside. 

Meanwhile, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a 10-inch or larger skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add the sausage and cook, breaking it up with a wooden spoon, until browned and cooked through, about 10 minutes. Transfer to a paper towel-lined plate and drain off any excess fat in the pan. 

Reduce to heat to medium and add the remaining tablespoon of oil and potatoes to the pan. Spread the potatoes in an even layer across the bottom of the pan and cook undisturbed for 5 minutes. Add the bell pepper, garlic, remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, pepper, and red pepper flakes. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the potatoes and peppers are tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Return the sausage to the pan and cook for 2 minutes more. Remove from the heat and stir in the lemon juice and parsley. 

Recipe Notes 
Make ahead: The potatoes can be par-boiled up to a day in advance and stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories485 
Fat35.1 g (54%) 
Saturated9.6 g (48.1%) 
Trans0.1 g 
Carbs23.4 g (7.8%) 
Fiber3.2 g (13%) 
Sugars3.2 g 
Protein20.2 g (40.3%) 
Cholesterol79.4 mg (26.5%) 
Sodium847.6 mg (35.3%)

Recipe: Ultimate Korean Short Ribs  
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 4 
1/4 cup peeled, chopped Asian pear  
1/4 cup chopped yellow onion  
1/4 cup mirin  
2 tablespoons sake  
2 tablespoons tamari or soy sauce  
1 (1-inch) section peeled fresh ginger, cut into 1/4-inch-thick coins  
2 large cloves garlic  
1 pound boneless short ribs, cut lengthwise into 1/4-inch-thick slices  
Marinate the meat: Place the pear, onion, mirin, sake, tamari or soy sauce, ginger, and garlic in a blender or bowl of a food processor with the blade attachment. Process until well-blended, stopping to scrape down the sides of the bowl halfway through to reincorporate any stray ingredients. Transfer the marinade to a container large enough to fit the short ribs, add the meat, and turn to coat with the marinade. Cover and refrigerate for 1 to 2 hours. 

Grill the short ribs: Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium heat (350°F to 375°F). Place the short rib slices in a single layer on the grill grates. Cover and grill for 1 to 3 minutes per side, or until the steak is cooked to your liking. (The marinade burns quickly, so  any hot spots on your grill carefully.) Transfer to a platter, let the meat rest for a minute or two, then serve immediately. 

Recipe Notes 
Gluten-free: To make this recipe gluten-free, make sure the sake is gluten-free and use tamari. 

Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories318 
Fat21.7 g (33.3%) 
Saturated9.2 g (46.2%) 
Trans1.3 g 
Carbs4.6 g (1.5%) 
Fiber0.6 g (2.2%) 
Sugars1.3 g 
Protein20.6 g (41.2%) 
Cholesterol82.8 mg (27.6%) 
Sodium525.8 mg (21.9% 

Recipe: Swiss Chard with Garbanzo Beans 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 4 to 6 
2 pounds Swiss chard, preferably rainbow chard 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
2 ounces pancetta, cut into 1/4-inch dice (about 1/2 cup) 
2 tablespoons finely chopped shallot 
Pinch red pepper flakes 
1 (15-ounce) can garbanzo beans, drained and rinsed 
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper 
Wash the chard leaves and stems well in a large sink of cold water. Lift the chard out of the water, leaving the grit at the bottom of the sink. Shake off the excess water, but do not dry the chard. 

Tear the stems from the leaves and chop the stems crosswise into 1/2-inch pieces: set aside. Stack the leaves and coarsely chop them. Keep the stems and leaves separate. 

Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the pancetta and cook until crisp and browned, about 3 minutes. Stir in the shallot and red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, until the shallot softens, about 2 minutes. 

Add the chard stems and beans. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the stems soften, about 4 minutes. Stir in the leaves a handful at a time until wilted. Cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until the chard is tender, about 5 minutes. Taste and season with salt and pepper as needed. Serve hot. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. 

Make ahead: The chard can be washed and cut up to 1 day ahead and stored in the refrigerator. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories312 
Fat15.5 g (23.8%) 
Saturated3.1 g (15.6%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs33.8 g (11.3%) 
Fiber10.5 g (41.9%) 
Sugars7.3 g 
Protein13.5 g (27%) 
Cholesterol9.4 mg (3.1%) 
Sodium803 mg (33.5%) 

Recipe: Quicker Spicy Rice Cakes 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 4 
For the rice cakes: 
1 package coin-shaped refrigerated Korean rice cakes (about 1 pound, 4 cups)
4 tablespoons canola oil, plus more as needed  
1 pound fresh Mexican chorizo, casings removed  
1 cup fermented Chinese mustard greens, finely chopped  
1 cup water  
4 medium scallions (green parts only), thinly sliced  

For the sweet and spicy all-purpose sauce:  

1/2 cup Korean chile paste, also known as gochujang  
1/2 cup mirin  
1/2 cup sake  
3 tablespoons tamari or soy sauce  
1 teaspoon finely grated peeled fresh ginger  
1 teaspoon finely grated garlic  

Soak the rice cakes: Put the rice cakes into a large bowl, breaking them up as you go if they seem stuck together. Add water to cover and let sit for about 1 hour. Meanwhile, make the sauce. 

Make the sauce: In a medium bowl, place the chili paste, mirin, and sake and whisk to combine. Add the tamari or soy sauce, ginger, and garlic, and whisk again until smooth. Store in the refrigerator, covered, until ready to use. 

Cook and serve the rice cakes: Drain the rice cakes. Decide whether you want to cook the dish in two batches by cooking in two pans at once, or by cooking in one pan, cleaning it out quickly, and repeating with the remaining ingredients. 

For cooking in one pan in batches: Heat a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat. Add 2 tablespoons of the oil, then add 1/2 of the chorizo on one side of the pan and press into a 3/4-inch-thick patty. Add 1/2 the rice cakes to the rest of the pan, breaking up the rice cakes with your hands as you drop them in. (Depending on the size of your pan, you may need to add a bit more oil. There should be enough oil that you see it bubbling around the edges of the ingredients in the pan.) Cook undisturbed until the chorizo is cooked on the bottom side and the rice cakes have begun to brown lightly, about 3 minutes. Toss all the ingredients, breaking up the rice cakes and chorizo a little with a wooden spoon and adding more oil, if necessary, to keep a thin layer across the bottom of the pan. Cook 3 minutes more. 

Add 1/2 the mustard greens, about 1/2 the sauce, and 1/2 cup of the water, stir to combine, and cook for another 3 to 5 minutes, or until the sauce has thickened, the chorizo is cooked through, and the rice cakes begin to separate from each other. Divide between two Asian-style noodle bowls and serve immediately, garnished with half of the green onions. Repeat with the remaining ingredients. 

For cooking in two pans at once: Follow the above directions, but cook everything in 2 pans at the same time. 

Recipe Notes 
Korean rice cakes: These oblong-shaped coins made from rice can be found in vacuum-sealed packages in the refrigerated noodle section of Asian grocery stores. They are in fact symbols of money in Korea. 

Make ahead: The sauce can be made and stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 month. 

Gluten-free: To make this recipe gluten-free, make sure the sake is gluten-free and use tamari. 

Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories863 
Fat58 g (89.2%) 
Saturated17.4 g (87%) 
Trans0.1 g 
Carbs36.1 g (12%) 
Fiber2.3 g (9.2%) 
Sugars1.4 g 
Protein31.6 g (63.3%) 
Cholesterol99.8 mg (33.3%) 
Sodium2097.7 mg (87.4%) 

How To Quickly Cook Shrimp on the Stovetop 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 4 to 6 

What You Need 
Ingredients 
1/2 to 1 pound medium shrimp (17-21 count), peeled and deveined, tails on  
1 tablespoon olive oil or butter, or a mix  
Coarse kosher salt  
Freshly ground black pepper  
Equipment  
Colander  
Large fry pan  
Spatula  
Paper towels  
Instructions 
If frozen, thaw the shrimp. If your shrimp are frozen, place them in a colander in the sink and run cold water over them for about 5 minutes. Toss the shrimp occasionally to make sure they are all exposed to the cold water. 


The shrimp will bend easily when thawed. The shrimp is thawed and ready when they are no longer frozen solid but soft, easily bendable, and slightly translucent. This will only take a few minutes. Pat the shrimp dry with paper towels. 


Warm the oil or butter over medium-high heat. Place the oil or butter in a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Tilt the pan as the oil warms, or butter melts, to coat the bottom of the pan. 


Add the shrimp to the hot pan. When the butter is melted or the oil moves around the pan easily, add the shrimp. They should sizzle on contact (if not, warm your pan a little longer next time). 


Season the shrimp with salt and pepper. Sprinkle salt and pepper over the shrimp. Be generous! You can also add any other seasonings at this point — chili spice, curry spice, a bit of harissa, or any other seasonings in your cupboard. 


Sauté the shrimp until pink and opaque. The shrimp will start off looking grey and translucent, but will gradually become pink and opaque as they cook through. The tails will also turn bright red. Cook the shrimp, stirring frequently, until the flesh is totally pink and opaque, and you see no more grey bits. Depending on the size of your shrimp and how many you have in the pan, this will usually take 4 to 5 minutes. 


Transfer to a serving dish. Serve sautéed shrimp immediately with pasta or over grains. Leftover shrimp is also fantastic in salads or cold preparations. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers shrimp can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories92 
Fat4.4 g (6.7%) 
Saturated0.5 g (2.4%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs0.9 g (0.3%) 
Fiber0.1 g (0.3%) 
Sugars0 g 
Protein11.6 g (23.2%) 
Cholesterol107.2 mg (35.7%) 
Sodium481.4 mg (20.1%) 

Recipe: Fiona's Green Chicken 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 4 to 6 
1 medium sweet onion, peeled and coarsely chopped (about 1 cup)  
1 cup packed fresh cilantro leaves and stems  
1 1/4 cups packed fresh basil leaves  
1/4 cup packed fresh mint leaves  
1/4 cup fish sauce, like Red Boat  
3 peeled garlic cloves  
Finely grated zest of 1 medium lime  
Plenty ground black pepper  
1 teaspoon Aleppo pepper  
2 tablespoons apple juice (or 1 teaspoon maple syrup if you're not on a Whole30)  
Kosher salt  
3 pounds chicken drumsticks or thighs  
Lime wedges, for serving 

Make the marinade by combining the onion, cilantro, basil, mint, fish sauce, garlic, lime zest, black pepper, Aleppo pepper, and apple juice in a blender. Purée until smooth. 

Taste for seasoning and add salt to taste. Since I use this as a marinade, I'm more heavy-handed with the salt than I normally would be if it was a sauce. 

Place the chicken in a gallon-sized zip-top bag and pour the marinade over it. Seal and marinate for at least 1 hour or up to 1 day in the refrigerator. 

The next day, take the chicken out of the fridge 1 hour before you're ready to grill it. (See Recipe Notes for oven-baked method.) Set a gas grill to high and after placing the chicken on the grates, immediately decrease the temperature to low. 

Grill the chicken for approximately 25 minutes (or until the internal temperature reaches 165°F) turning every 5 to 7 minutes. But be patient: Don't go and flip the bird (legs, that is) before they naturally release from the grill surface — otherwise, you'll leave a lot of tasty, crispy, marinated skin stuck on the grates! 
Oven-baked chicken: If you are baking the chicken, roast on a wire rack for 35 to 45 minutes at 400°F. Start with skin-side down, and flip skin-side up at the 20-minute mark. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories604  
Fat31.6 g (48.5%) 
Saturated8.4 g (42.1%) 
Trans0.2 g 
Carbs14.5 g (4.8%) 
Fiber2 g (8%) 
Sugars8.1 g 
Protein62.8 g (125.5%) 
Cholesterol313 mg (104.3%) 
Sodium1001.1 mg (41.7%) 

Chicken Saltimbocca with Spinach and Potatoes 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 4 to 6 

1 pound chicken cutlets  
1 teaspoon dried sage  
1 teaspoon kosher salt, divided  
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper  
3 teaspoons olive oil, divided  
12 ounces small red potatoes, cut into 1/4-inch-thick rounds  
1 (6-ounce) bag baby spinach  
1 clove garlic, minced  
6 thin slices prosciutto  
Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and turn on the broiler to high. Meanwhile, cook the chicken and vegetables. 

Pat the chicken with paper towels, then season both sides of the cutlets with the sage, 1/2 teaspoon of the salt, and pepper. 

Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a 10-inch or larger cast iron skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add the cutlets in a single layer without crowding the pan, working in batches if needed. Sear the chicken until the bottom is browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Flip the cutlets and continue searing until the other side is browned and the chicken is cooked through, 3 to 4 minutes more. Transfer the cooked cutlets to a plate, tent with aluminum foil, and repeat cooking any remaining pieces. 

Reduce the heat to medium and add the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil. Add the potatoes, season with the remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, stir to coat with the oil, and arrange in a single layer. Cook until the bottoms just start to brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Flip with a spatula and continue cooking until lightly browned and tender, about 3 minutes more. Stir in the spinach and garlic and cook until just wilted, about 2 minutes. 

Remove the skillet from the heat. Place the chicken on top of the vegetables in a single layer. Top each cutlet with a slice of prosciutto, then sprinkle with the cheese. Broil until the cheese is melted and bubbling, about 1 minute. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories315 
Fat18.7 g (28.8%) 
Saturated7.5 g (37.3%) 
Trans0.4 g 
Carbs17.1 g (5.7%) 
Fiber3.3 g (13.3%) 
Sugars1.5 g 
Protein21 g (41.9%) 
Cholesterol61.4 mg (20.5%) 

Mrs. Garcia's Black Bean Soup 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 8 

1 pound dried black beans  
1 medium onion, finely chopped  
1 medium green bell pepper, finely chopped  
3 cloves garlic, minced  
1 ham bone or smoked ham hock  
1/2 cup olive oil  
2 teaspoons salt  
Freshly ground black pepper  
1/3 cup distilled white or apple cider vinegar  
Cooked rice, for serving (optional)  
To garnish (optional):  
Sour cream  
Chopped raw onion  
Chopped red pepper  
The night before cooking the soup, place the beans in a colander and rinse with cold running water. Pick out any rocks or beans that are broken or shriveled. Place the beans in a large (4 quarts or larger) Dutch oven or soup pot with a lid and cover with enough cold water so that it comes to one inch over the top of the beans. Soak overnight. 

Drain the beans, then return the beans to the pot. Add enough cold water so that it covers the beans by an inch. Add the onion, pepper, garlic, ham bone or hock, olive oil, salt, and a generous quantity of black pepper. Stir to combine 

Bring to a boil over high heat. Skim off any white foam, then reduce the heat to low and cover. Simmer until the beans are very soft and the soup is creamy, not watery, 4 to 5 hours. Check after 2 hours. If the beans seem dry or stewy, add another cup of water. The final consistency should be velvety and thick, and the soup should coat the back of a spoon. (The beans will soften in the first two hours. The goal is to continue cooking the soup until some of the beans break down and create the smooth, thick soup base.) 

When the soup is nearly finished, stir in the vinegar and simmer uncovered for 15 minutes more. Pull the ham bone out of the pot — the meat that hasn't already fallen off should be easy to pick off: coarsely chop and return the meat to the pot. 

Serve over rice if desired, garnished with chopped raw onions and sour cream. Also, if you like, little bits of chopped chicharrónes can be garnished on top. Add some sweet fried plantains as a side dish! 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days or frozen for up to 3 months. 

Per serving, based on 8 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories326 
Fat14.5 g (22.3%) 
Saturated1.2 g (6.2%) 
Trans0.1 g 
Carbs37.8 g (12.6%) 
Fiber9.4 g (37.6%) 
Sugars2.3 g 
Protein12.6 g (25.2%) 
Sodium257.7 mg (10.7%) 

Recipe: Red Lentil Sweet Potato Soup 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 6: makes 2 quarts 
2 tablespoons coconut oil or neutral oil 
3 pounds sweet potatoes, peeled and chopped into 1-inch chunks 
1 quart low-sodium vegetable broth 
1 cup red lentils 
1 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 (13- to 15-ounce) can coconut milk  

Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat until shimmering. Add the sweet potatoes and stir to combine. Cover and cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes. 

Add the broth, lentils, turmeric, and salt. Increase the heat to medium-high and bring to a boil, stirring occasionally. 

Reduce the heat to low, cover, and simmer until sweet potatoes and lentils are tender, 20 to 25 minutes. 

Stir in the coconut milk. Purée with an immersion blender or blender until smooth, allowing the soup to cool slightly first if using a traditional blender. Taste and season with salt as needed. Add a cup of water to thin if needed. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. 

Per serving, based on 6 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories482 
Fat19.3 g (29.7%) 
Saturated13 g (64.8%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs68.3 g (22.8%) 
Fiber10.4 g (41.6%) 
Sugars10.2 g 
Protein12.9 g (25.7%) 
Sodium546.9 mg (22.8%) 

How To Make Perfect Bacon in the Oven 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 4 to 6 

What You Need 
Ingredients 
1 to 2 pounds sliced bacon 
Equipment  
Aluminum foil 
Rimmed baking sheet(s) 
Tongs 
Paper towels 
Platter 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 400°F. Arrange a rack in the lower third of the oven and heat to 400°F. If you're cooking 2 sheets of bacon, position a second rack in the top third of the oven. 

Arrange the bacon on a baking sheet. Line 1 to 2 rimmed baking sheets with aluminum foil (this makes cleanup easier). Lay the bacon on the baking sheet(s) in a single layer. The bacon can be close together, but don't let it overlap or the bacon will stick during cooking. 

Bake the bacon. Bake until the bacon is deep golden-brown and crispy, 15 to 20 minutes. Exact baking time will depend on the thickness of the bacon and how crispy you like it. Begin checking around 12 minutes to monitor how quickly the bacon is cooking. The bacon fat will sputter and bubble as the bacon cooks, but shouldn't splatter the way it does on the stove top. Pour off the bacon grease as needed so the bacon isn't totally submerged in grease. 

Transfer the bacon to a plate lined with paper towels. Remove the bacon from the oven and use tongs to transfer it to a plate lined with paper towels to drain and finish crisping. Serve immediately. 
Clean up. If you want to save the bacon grease, let it cool slightly, then pour it into a container and refrigerate. If you don't want to save the grease, let it solidify on the baking sheet, then crumple the foil around it and discard. 

Recipe Notes 
Even crispier bacon: For even crispier bacon, fit a metal rack over the foil-lined baking sheet and lay the raw bacon on the rack. Elevating the bacon allows it to cook from all sides and become extra-crispy. 

Storage: Refrigerate leftover bacon for 1 week or freeze it for up to 3 months: warm the bacon in the microwave before serving. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories709 
Fat67.5 g (103.9%) 
Saturated22.6 g (113.1%) 
Trans0.2 g 
Carbs2.2 g (0.7%) 
Sugars1.7 g 
Protein21.5 g (42.9%) 
Cholesterol112.3 mg (37.4%) 
Sodium1126 mg (46.9%) 

Recipe: Breakfast Fried Rice 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 4 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided 
3 large eggs, lightly beaten 
12 ounces uncooked breakfast sausage, casings removed 
1/2 medium onion, finely diced 
5 cups cooked rice, preferably cold 
2 tablespoons tamari or soy sauce 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
Freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 cup shredded sharp cheddar cheese 
1/2 cup frozen peas 
1 tablespoon coarsely chopped fresh parsley leaves 
Heat the 1 tablespoon of oil in a flat-bottomed wok or large nonstick frying pan over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add the eggs and gently scramble with a rubber spatula until just softly set, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer to a bowl or plate and set aside. 

Add the remaining 1 tablespoon oil, sausage, and onion to the pan and cook, breaking up the meat with a wooden spoon into small pieces, until the sausage is cooked through and the onion is tender, about 5 minutes. Add the rice and stir-fry until heated through, about 3 minutes. Use your spatula to flatten out and break up any clumps. 

Add the tamari or soy sauce and salt, season with pepper, and cook for 1 minute more. Add the scrambled eggs, cheese, and peas to the pan and gently fold to combine until the cheese is melted. Taste and season with salt or soy sauce as needed. Sprinkle with the parsley and serve. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 
Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories697 
Fat37.1 g (57.1%) 
Saturated11 g (55.1%) 
Trans0.3 g 
Carbs60.9 g (20.3%) 
Fiber1.9 g (7.5%) 
Sugars2.5 g 
Protein28.2 g (56.4%) 
Cholesterol213.4 mg (71.1%) 
Sodium1234.2 mg (51.4%) 

PRINT RECIPE
How To Make Yogurt at Home 
Makes about 2 quarts yogurt 

What You Need 
Ingredients 
1/2 gallon milk — whole or 2% are best, but skim can also be used 
1/2 cup commercial yogurt containing active cultures 
Equipment 
3 quart or larger Dutch oven or heavy saucepan with a lid  
Spatula 
Instant-read or candy thermometer (one that can clip to the side of the pan) 
Small measuring cup or small bowl 
Whisk 
Instructions 
Heat the milk. Pour the milk into the Dutch oven and set over medium to medium-high heat. Warm the milk to right below boiling, about 200°F. Stir the milk gently as it heats to make sure the bottom doesn't scorch and the milk doesn't boil over. According to the National Center for Home Food Preservation, this heating step is necessary to change the protein structure in the milk so it sets as a solid instead of separating. 

Cool the milk. Let the milk cool until it is just warm to the touch, 112°F to 115°F. Stir occasionally to prevent a skin from forming. (Though if one does form, you can either stir it back in or pull it out for a snack!) You can help this step go faster by placing the Dutch oven in an ice water bath and gently stirring the milk. 

Thin the yogurt with milk. Scoop out about a cup of warm milk with a measuring cup and add the yogurt. Whisk until smooth and the yogurt is dissolved in the milk.  

Whisk the thinned yogurt into the milk. Pour the thinned yogurt into the warm milk while whisking gently. This inoculates the milk with the yogurt culture. 

Transfer the pot to the (turned-off) oven. Cover the Dutch oven with the lid and place the whole pot in a turned-off oven — turn on the oven light or wrap the pot in towels to keep the milk warm as it sets (ideally around 110°F, though some variance is fine). You can also make the yogurt in a dehydrator left at 110°F or using a yogurt maker. 

Wait for the yogurt to set. Let the yogurt set for at least 4 hours or as long as overnight — the exact time will depend on the cultures used, the temperature of the yogurt, and your yogurt preferences. The longer yogurt sits, the thicker and more tart it becomes. If this is your first time making yogurt, start checking it after 4 hours and stop when it reaches a flavor and consistency you like. Avoid jostling or stirring the yogurt until it has fully set. 

Cool the yogurt. Once the yogurt has set to your liking, remove it from the oven. If you see any watery whey on the surface of the yogurt, you can either drain this off or whisk it back into the yogurt before transferring to containers. Whisking also gives the yogurt a more consistent creamy texture. Transfer the to storage containers, cover, and refrigerate. Homemade yogurt will keep for about 2 weeks in the refrigerator. 

Your next batch of homemade yogurt. Once you start making your own yogurt, you can use some of each batch to culture your next batch. Just save 1/2 cup to use for this purpose. If after a few batches, you notice some odd flavors in your yogurt or that it's not culturing quite as quickly, that means that either some outside bacteria has taken up residence in your yogurt or that this strain is becoming weak. As long as this batch still tastes good to you, it will be safe to eat, but go back to using some store-bought commercial yogurt in your next batch. 

Recipe Notes 
Cost Breakdown: We eat about a quart of yogurt a week in our house, which was costing roughly $2.60 a week. A half gallon of milk makes a little less than two quarts of yogurt, which has been just enough to last us two weeks. We buy a local brand of milk that costs $3.70 per half gallon ($1.85 per quart), so we end up saving about 75-cents per week on yogurt. Nice. 

Holding the Temperature: If your milk drops below 110° while it's incubating, that's fine. It will take a little longer to set and might end up a little looser, but the bacteria in the yogurt culture will keep the milk from spoiling. By the way, even after 8 hours in the oven (overnight), our yogurt made in the Dutch oven still usually registers about 100° when I take it out of the oven! 

Homemade Greek Yogurt: You can make Greek-style yogurt by straining your homemade yogurt until it is as thick as you like. Read more about it here: How to Make Thick & Creamy Greek-Style Yogurt. 

This post and recipe have been updated. Originally published August 23, 2010.

Per serving, based on 8 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories239Fat6.7 g (10.4%)Saturated4.3 g (21.3%)Carbs39.7 g (13.2%)Sugars39.7 gProtein6.2 g (12.4%)Cholesterol26.3 mg (8.8%)Sodium98 mg (4.1%) 


PRINT RECIPE  
Banana-Date Smoothie 
Makes about 4 cups: serves 2 

INGREDIENTS 
2 medium ripe bananas 
1/4 cup pitted dried dates, such as Medjool 
2 cups almond milk 
2 teaspoons chia seeds, soaked if time allows (see Recipe Note) 
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 
1/2 medium lime, juiced 
4 ice cubes 
Pinch ground cinnamon 
Pinch salt 
Place all the ingredients in a blender and blend on high speed until smooth, about 1 minute. Divide between 2 cups and serve with a sprinkle of cinnamon and salt. Best if served immediately. (Makes about 4 cups total.) 

Recipe Notes 
Soaking chia seeds: If time allows, soak the chia seeds in 4 teaspoons of water for an hour. The chia seeds will turn into gel, making them easier to blend. Larger batches of chia seeds can also be soaked (2:1 ratio water to chia seeds) and kept refrigerated for up to 1 week.  

Per serving, based on 2 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories336 
Fat8.4 g (13%)
Saturated4.7 g (23.4%) 
Carbs61.4 g (20.5%) 
Fiber5.5 g (22.2%) 
Sugars45.5 g 
Protein9.6 g (19.3%) 
Cholesterol24.4 mg (8.1%) 
Sodium252.1 mg (10.5%) 

Recipe: Fried Potatoes and Sausage Skillet 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 4 
1 pound Yukon gold potatoes, cut into 1-inch chunks 
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, divided 
2 tablespoons olive oil, divided 
1 pound uncooked pork sausage, casings removed
1 medium red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and cut into 1-inch pieces 
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
Juice from 1 medium lemon 
Fresh parsley leaves 
Place the potatoes in a large saucepan, cover by 1 inch with cold water, and add 1/4 teaspoon of the salt. Bring to a boil over high heat, then cook just until the potatoes are fork-tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Drain the potatoes: set aside.

Meanwhile, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a 10-inch or larger skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add the sausage and cook, breaking it up with a wooden spoon, until browned and cooked through, about 10 minutes. Transfer to a paper towel-lined plate and drain off any excess fat in the pan.

Reduce to heat to medium and add the remaining tablespoon of oil and potatoes to the pan. Spread the potatoes in an even layer across the bottom of the pan and cook undisturbed for 5 minutes. Add the bell pepper, garlic, remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, pepper, and red pepper flakes. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the potatoes and peppers are tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Return the sausage to the pan and cook for 2 minutes more. Remove from the heat and stir in the lemon juice and parsley.

Recipe Notes
Make ahead: The potatoes can be par-boiled up to a day in advance and stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator. 

Storage: Leftovers will keep for up to 3 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value)
Calories485 
Fat35.1 g (54%) 
Saturated9.6 g (48.1%) 
Trans0.1 g 
Carbs23.4 g (7.8%) 
Fiber3.2 g (13%) 
Sugars3.2 g 
Protein20.2 g (40.3%) 
Cholesterol79.4 mg (26.5%) 
Sodium847.6 mg (35.3%) 

How To Make Oatmeal in the Slow Cooker: The Simplest, Easiest Method 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 4 
What You Need 
Ingredients 
3 cups water 
1 cup old-fashioned rolled oats 
1/4 cup heavy cream or half-and-half 
1/4 cup packed brown sugar 

Equipment  
Measuring cups and spoons 
2-quart slow cooker 

Instructions 
Combine the water and oats in a small slow cooker. Place the water and oats in a 2-quart slow cooker and stir to combine. 
Cover and cook on LOW 8 hours. Cover the slow cooker. Cook on the LOW setting for 8 hours or overnight. 
Add the cream and brown sugar. Add the cream or half-and-half and brown sugar. Gently stir the oats but avoid over-stirring, as the oats will be incredibly creamy. 
Serve with additional toppings if desired. Serve the oatmeal with more cream, sugar, or toppings if desired. 
Recipe Notes 
Gluten-free: For gluten-free oatmeal, make sure the oats are labeled gluten-free, meaning they are processed in a facility that does not also process foods containing gluten. 

Doubling the recipe: You can easily double or triple the amounts in the recipe and still cook for 8 hours on low in a larger slow cooker. 

Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories178 
Fat6.9 g (10.6%) 
Saturated3.6 g (18.2%) 
Carbs27.5 g (9.2%) 
Fiber1.9 g (7.5%) 
Sugars14 g 
Protein3.1 g (6.1%) 
Cholesterol20.4 mg (6.8%) 
Sodium17.2 mg (0.7%) 

Recipe: Blueberry Pie Overnight Oats 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 4 
For the pie crust topping:  
2 tablespoons old-fashioned rolled oats  
1 tablespoon rice flour or all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon raw sugar 
1 tablespoon coconut oil, at room temperature but not liquid 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 

For the overnight oats:   
2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats 
2 teaspoons chia seeds 
1/3 cup dried, fresh, or frozen blueberries 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1 1/2 cups almond milk or non-dairy milk 
1 cup coconut yogurt, homemade or store-bought 

To serve (optional): Blueberry jam, fresh or frozen blueberries, and extra coconut yogurt 

To make the pie crust topping: Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 350°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. 

Place all of the pie crust topping ingredients in a small bowl. Rub the coconut oil into the other ingredients using your fingertips. Pour the mixture onto the baking sheet and spread into an even layer. Bake for 5 minutes. Stir the mixture, then return to the oven and bake for 2 minutes more. Set aside to cool completely on the baking sheet before transferring to an airtight container. 

To make the overnight oats: Divide the oats, chia seeds, blueberries, vanilla, almond milk, and coconut yogurt between 4 jars or other containers with lids. Screw on the lids and shake well until combined. Refrigerate overnight or for up to 4 days. 

In the morning, stir the oats, then swirl in any extra toppings, if desired. Sprinkle the pie crust topping over top just before eating. Eat while still cold! 

Recipe Notes 
Using all-purpose flour: If you can tolerate wheat, then you can use all-purpose flour in the topping instead of rice flour. 

Store-bought topping: If you don't have time to make the topping, use granola instead. 

Storage: The overnight oats can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories306 
Fat10.1 g (15.5%) 
Saturated2.2 g (11%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs44.5 g (14.8%) 
Fiber5 g (20.1%) 
Sugars11.8 g 
Protein11.2 g (22.5%) 
Cholesterol8 mg (2.7%) 

Recipe: Soft & Chewy Granola 
PRINT RECIPE 


Makes about 5 cups 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
3/4 cup millet 
1 cup skin-on raw almonds, coarsely chopped 
1/4 cup pumpkin seeds 
1/2 cup sunflower seeds  
1/3 cup dried apricots, coarsely chopped 
1/4 cup chia seeds 
1/3 cup flaxseed meal  
1/4 cup sesame seeds  
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons honey  
Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. 

Heat the oil in a large frying pan over medium heat until shimmering. Add the millet and cook, stirring frequently, until toasted and golden-brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool for 5 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl. 
Add the almonds, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, apricots, chia seeds, flaxseed meal, sesame seeds, melted butter, and 1/2 cup of honey and stir to combine. 

Pour the mixture onto the prepared baking sheet and spread into an even layer. Bake for 20 minutes. Stir the mixture, drizzle the remaining 2 tablespoons of honey over it, and bake for 10 minutes more. 

Transfer the baking sheet to a cooling rack and cool the granola completely. Store in an airtight container. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Granola will keep well in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 2 weeks. 

Per serving, based on 12 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories302 
Fat17.7 g (27.2%) 
Saturated3.9 g (19.6%) 
Trans0.2 g 
Carbs32.7 g (10.9%) 
Fiber6.1 g (24.2%) 
Sugars17 g 
Protein7.3 g (14.6%) 
Cholesterol10.2 mg (3.4%) 
Sodium3.8 mg (0.2%) 

How To Cook Steel-Cut Oats for Breakfast the Night Before 
PRINT RECIPE 

What You Need 
Ingredients 
1 teaspoon butter or olive oil 
1 cup steel-cut oats 
3 cups water 
3-fingered pinch salt 
1 cup milk (optional) 
Equipment 
2-quart saucepan 
Instructions 
Start this the night before you want to have steel-cut oatmeal. Measure out your oats. This quantity will make about 4 servings. 

Heat about 1 teaspoon butter or olive oil in a 2-quart saucepan set over medium heat. Add the oats and fry them for about 3 minutes, or until they start smelling toasty. 

Pour in the water and add the salt. Stir. 

Bring to a rolling boil. 

Turn off the heat and cover the pan. Leave it on the stove, and go to bed! 

The next morning, uncover the pan and bring the oatmeal back up to a simmer. If you would like thinner and creamier oatmeal, stir in a cup of milk before reheating. 

When the oatmeal is warm, scoop out and enjoy! 

Recipe Notes 
Cover and refrigerate any leftovers. 


Reheat leftovers in just the same way: warm up on the stove, or in a bowl in the microwave. 


Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories162 
Fat3.8 g (5.9%) 
Saturated0.6 g (3.1%) 
Carbs25.8 g (8.6%) 
Fiber4.1 g (16.5%) 
Protein6.6 g (13.2%) 
Sodium73.5 mg (3.1%) 

Recipe: Make-Ahead Baked Greek Omelet 
PRINT RECIPE 
Make-Ahead Spinach and Feta Egg Casserole 

Serves 8 
1 tablespoon olive oil, plus more for the baking dish 
1/2 medium yellow onion, diced 
1/2 medium red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and diced 
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt, divided 
6 ounces baby spinach (about 6 cups packed), or 8 ounces frozen spinach, thawed, drained, and pressed well to remove liquid 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh dill 
12 large eggs 
2 cups whole or 2% milk 
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
4 ounces feta cheese, crumbled (about 1 cup) 
 
Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 375°F. Coat a 9x13-inch baking dish with olive oil. 

Heat the oil in a large frying pan over medium heat until shimmering. Add the onion, pepper, and 1/2 teaspoon of the salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the spinach and garlic, and toss until wilted and almost all of the liquid is evaporated, about 3 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the dill. Transfer to the baking dish and spread in an even layer. 

Place the eggs, milk, mustard, remaining 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a large bowl and whisk until the eggs are completely broken up and incorporated. Pour over the spinach mixture in the baking dish. Sprinkle evenly with the feta. 
Bake until the top is light golden-brown and a knife inserted in the middle comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes. Let cool for 5 minutes before slicing. 

Recipe Notes 
Make ahead: The casserole can be assembled, covered tightly with aluminum foil, and refrigerated overnight before baking. Uncover before baking. 

Freezing: The casserole can also be frozen unbaked. Cover tightly with aluminum foil, wrap in plastic wrap, and freeze for up to 3 months. Thaw overnight in the refrigerator, then proceed with baking uncovered as instructed. Depending on how frozen the casserole still is, it may take up to 1 1/2 hours baking time: check after 1 hour. 

Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 

Per serving, based on 8 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories208 
Fat14.1 g (21.6%) 
Saturated5.7 g (28.4%) 
Trans0.3 g 
Carbs5.8 g (1.9%) 
Fiber0.9 g (3.5%) 
Sugars4.1 g 
Protein14.4 g (28.8%) 
Cholesterol259.2 mg (86.4%) 
Sodium420 mg (17.5%) 

How To Make Really Good Restaurant-Style Ramen at Home 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 4 to 6 
What You Need 
Ingredients 
For the broth: 
6 to 6 1/2 pounds chicken wings  
4 medium carrots (about 8 ounces), cut into 1/2-inch-thick rounds   

3 small bunches scallions (12 to 18), roots trimmed  
 
10 cups water, divided  
1 head garlic, skin on, roots removed, cut in half horizontally  
1 (2-inch) piece ginger, peeled and cut into 1/4-inch pieces  
20 dried shiitake mushrooms (about 2 ounces)  
1 (6-inch) sheet dried kombu (sea vegetable or seaweed)  
1/4 cup soy sauce  

For the shoyu tare: 
1/4 cup soy sauce  
2 tablespoons mirin  

For the eggs and noodles: 
3 to 4 large eggs, depending on the number of diners  
6 (5-ounce) packages fresh, thin, and wavy ramen noodles  

For serving: 
1/2 cup menma (fermented bamboo shoots)  
6 medium scallions, thinly sliced  
3 toasted nori sheets, cut into ribbons  
Chili oil or toasted (Asian) sesame oil  

Equipment 
Measuring cups and spoons 
Chef's knife 
Stovetop-safe roasting pan or large stovetop-safe casserole dish 
Stockpot  
Large saucepan 
Strainer or slotted spoon (for skimming) 
Fine-mesh strainer 
Large bowl 

Instructions 
Make the broth and tare: 
Roast the chicken wings. Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 425°F. Place the chicken wings in a stovetop-safe roasting pan or casserole dish and roast until well-browned, about 30 minutes. Reduce the heat to 375°F, add the carrots and scallions, and stir to combine. Roast for 20 minutes more. 
Deglaze the roasting pan. Transfer the chicken and vegetables to a stockpot. Place the now-empty roasting pan on the stovetop over high heat. Add 2 cups of the water and, stirring and scraping vigorously with a heatproof or metal spoon, scrape up all the flavorful browned bits from the bottom of the pan. Bring to a boil, then carefully pour the mixture into the stockpot. 
Amp up the aromatics. Add the garlic, ginger, shiitakes, kombu, and remaining 8 cups of water to the pot and stir to combine. Bring just to a simmer over high heat — just a few bubbles around the edges.
Simmer the broth. Reduce the heat as low as your stove will allow, add the soy sauce, and simmer uncovered, occasionally skimming the fat and scum that accumulates on the surface, until the chicken has fallen completely off the bone and the wing bones come apart easily, 3 to 3 1/2 hours. 
Strain the broth. Pour the broth through a fine-mesh strainer into a large bowl: discard the solids. Cool the broth to room temperature, then cover and refrigerate overnight. Before using, skim the fat off the surface and discard. 
Make the tare. Combine the soy sauce and mirin in a small airtight container, seal, and refrigerate until ready to use. 
For serving: 
Cook the eggs. Fill a large saucepan with a few inches of water and place over high heat until it comes to a rolling boil. Reduce the heat so that the water is at a rapid simmer. Gently lower the eggs into the water 1 at a time, then simmer for 6 minutes. Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon to an ice water bath. Peel the cooled eggs, cut in half lengthwise, and set aside. 
Cook the noodles. Return the egg cooking water to a boil, add the noodles, and cook according to package directions, 3 to 5 minutes. Drain the noodles and run under cool water to stop the cooking. 
Simmer and flavor the broth. Bring the broth back to a boil in a separate saucepan. Remove from the heat and add the tare to taste. 
Assemble the bowls. Divide the noodles between 4 deep, wide bowls (or more bowls if you want to have smaller servings). Ladle on the hot broth. Top each bowl with 1 to 2 egg halves, bamboo shoots, scallions, and nori and drizzle with oil. 
Recipe Notes 
Make ahead: The broth and tare can be made and stored in the refrigerator up to 1 week ahead. The broth can also be frozen for up to 3 months. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories515 
Fat8.2 g (12.6%) 
Saturated1.9 g (9.4%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs85.1 g (28.4%) 
Fiber6.3 g (25.2%) 
Sugars7.9 g 
Protein27 g (54%) 
Cholesterol242.9 mg (81%) 
Sodium3751 mg (156.3%) 

Recipe: Slow Cooker Whole Chicken Chicken Soup 
PRINT RECIPE  

Serves 8: makes about 4 quarts 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 medium yellow onion, diced 
4 medium carrots 
3 medium celery stalks 
8 cups (2 quarts) water 
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 
1 bay leaf 
1 (4- to 5-pound) whole chicken, neck and giblets removed from the cavity 
1 tablespoon kosher salt, plus more as needed 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, plus more as needed 
2 tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh Italian parsley leaves 
2 cups cooked rice or noodles (optional) 
Heat the oil in a medium frying pan over medium heat until shimmering. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened and starting to brown, about 7 minutes. Meanwhile, peel and cut the carrots into large dice, then cut the celery into large dice. Transfer both to a 6-quart or larger slow cooker. Add the water, thyme, and bay leaf. When the onion is ready, transfer to the slow cooker and stir to combine. 

Place the chicken on a work surface or cutting board and pat dry with paper towels. Season inside and out with the salt and pepper. Place the chicken on top of the vegetables in the slow cooker. Cover and cook until the chicken is cooked through and falling off the bones, about 6 hours on the HIGH setting or 8 hours on the LOW setting. 

Transfer the chicken to a rimmed baking sheet (it's okay if it falls apart into large pieces). When cool enough to handle but still warm, use your hands to shred the meat into bite-sized pieces (discard the skin, cartilage, and bones). Return the shredded chicken to the slow cooker and add the parsley and a few large pinches of salt. 
 
Add the rice or noodles, if using, and stir to combine. Taste and season with salt and pepper as needed. 

Recipe Notes 
Make ahead: The onion can be sautéed and refrigerated in an airtight container for up to 2 days. 

Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days or frozen for up to 2 months. 

Per serving, based on 8 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories409 
Fat27.9 g (43%) 
Saturated7.7 g (38.7%) 
Trans0.2 g 
Carbs4.8 g (1.6%) 
Fiber1.4 g (5.7%) 
Sugars2.2 g 
Protein32.9 g (65.7%) 
Cholesterol130.1 mg (43.4%) 
Sodium870.7 mg (36.3%)  

Recipe: Herbed Citrus Salad with Tahini Dressing and Greens 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 4 
For the tahini dressing: 
1 large shallot, minced 
Finely grated zest of 1 tangerine, plus 1/4 cup of the juice 
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice 
1 tablespoon honey 
1/4 teaspoon fine salt 
1/4 teaspoon chili powder 
3 tablespoons tahini 
Water, as needed 

For the salad: 
1 ruby red grapefruit 
1 Cara Cara orange 
1 mandarin orange 
2 tablespoons fresh tarragon leaves, minced 
1 tablespoon fresh parsley leaves, minced 
4 cups spring mix or baby lettuce 
1/4 cup pomegranate arils (optional) 
Freshly ground black pepper 

Make the dressing: Place the shallot, tangerine zest and juice, lemon juice, honey, salt, and chili powder in a small bowl and whisk to combine. Set aside for 5 minutes to give shallots time to marinate. Whisk in the tahini until mixture is emulsified. If dressing is too thick, add a drizzle of water to thin. 

Make the salad: To prep the citrus, trim the top and bottom from each piece of fruit. Then, with downward strokes, cut remaining peel off in strips, removing peel and white pith and revealing the citrus flesh. Cut off any remaining pith. Slice citrus crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick rounds. Sprinkle the tarragon and parsley over both sides of the citrus rounds.  

Place the greens in a medium bowl. Drizzle in a few tablespoons dressing and toss. Arrange the greens on a platter or plate and top with the citrus rounds. Finish with another drizzle of tahini dressing, sprinkle with the pomegranate arils if using, and finish with a few twists of freshly ground pepper. 

Recipe Notes 
Make ahead: This salad is best eaten fresh, but the citrus can be sliced and the dressing can be made up to 2 days ahead and stored separately in the refrigerator. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories89 
Fat0.4 g (0.6%) 
Saturated0.1 g (0.3%) 
Carbs21.9 g (7.3%) 
Fiber4 g (16%) 
Sugars14.6 g 
Protein2.3 g (4.6%) 
Sodium150.2 mg (6.3%) 


Recipe: Slow Cooker Golden Chickpea Soup 
PRINT RECIPE  


Serves 6 to 8 
2 tablespoons coconut oil 
1 large onion, diced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 tablespoon ground turmeric 
2 teaspoons ground coriander  
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1 pound dried chickpeas 
8 ounces Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and diced 
8 cups (2 quarts) low-sodium vegetable or chicken broth 
Greek yogurt 
1 medium lemon, cut into wedges 
Chopped fresh cilantro 
Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until soft, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic, turmeric, coriander, salt, and pepper, and cook, stirring occasionally, for 2 minutes. Transfer to a 6-quart or larger slow cooker. 

Add the chickpeas, potatoes, and broth, and stir to combine. Cover and cook on the LOW setting until the beans are tender, 8 to 10 hours. 

Use an immersion blender to purée the soup until smooth in the slow cooker, or purée the soup in a blender, working in batches if necessary. 

Ladle into bowls, then garnish with a dollop of Greek yogurt, a squeeze of lemon juice, and cilantro. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers will keep for up to 4 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator or in the freezer for 3 months. 
Per serving, based on 6 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories491 
Fat13.2 g (20.3%) 
Saturated5.5 g (27.3%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs70.6 g (23.5%) 
Fiber11.4 g (45.7%) 
Sugars14.8 g 
Protein25 g (50%) 
Cholesterol9.6 mg (3.2%) 
Sodium950.4 mg (39.6%) 

How To Make the Best Lentil Dal at Home 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 4 to 6 
What You Need 
Ingredients 
1 cup split red lentils 
3 cups water 
2 tablespoons ghee 
1 small yellow onion, diced small 
4 cloves garlic, thinly sliced 
1 (1/2-inch) piece fresh ginger, peeled and minced 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1/4 teaspoon ground coriander 
1 bay leaf 
1 (15-ounce) can diced tomatoes, or 2 diced large, ripe tomatoes 

For the tadka: 
2 tablespoons ghee 
1/2 teaspoon whole cumin seeds 
1/2 teaspoon coarsely ground black pepper 
2 cloves garlic, coarsely chopped 

For serving: 
1/2 cup fresh cilantro leaves (optional) 
Cooked basmati rice or roti 

Equipment 
Small saucepan 
Medium skillet 
Fine-mesh strainer 
Wooden spoon 
Measuring cup and spoons 
Chef's knife 
Cutting board 

Instructions 
Cook the lentils. Sort through the lentils and remove any debris. Rinse in a fine-mesh strainer under cool, running water. Place the lentils and 3 cups water in a small saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat slightly to maintain a simmer, and cook until the lentils are tender, about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the spices. 
Sauté the aromatics and spices. Heat the ghee in a medium skillet over medium-high heat. Add the onion, garlic, and ginger, and cook until browned, about 8 minutes. Add the salt, cumin, turmeric, coriander, and bay leaf, and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute more. 
Add the tomatoes. Add the tomatoes along with their juices, reduce the heat to low, and keep warm while the lentils cook. 
Add the aromatics and tomatoes to the lentils. Add the tomato mixture to the cooked lentils and stir to combine. Do not be gentle, use a wooden spoon or spatula to mash the lentils and combine the mixture. 
Make the tadka. Heat the ghee in a small saucepan or skillet over medium heat (you can use the same skillet you cooked the aromatics and tomatoes in, just wipe it clean before proceeding). Have a lid handy. Tilt the pan to form a pool of ghee, add the cumin and black pepper, and cover immediately. Once the spices stop spluttering, remove from the heat and add the garlic. It will brown quickly, so transfer the tadka to another bowl for serving after it browns, or add immediately to the lentils. 
Serve. Add the tadka to the lentils, garnish with cilantro if using, stir, and serve hot over rice or with roti. 
Recipe Notes 
Make ahead: The lentils can be cooked up to 3 days in advance and kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator. 

Storage: Leftover dal can be stored in an airtight container for up the 5 days or frozen for up to 3 months. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories308 
Fat13.6 g (20.9%) 
Saturated8.1 g (40.3%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs36.2 g (12.1%) 
Fiber6.7 g (26.8%) 
Sugars2.9 g 
Protein12.9 g (25.8%) 
Cholesterol32.8 mg (10.9%) 
Sodium302.9 mg (12.6%) 

Udon Noodle Soup with Bok Choy and Poached Egg 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 2 

4 to 5 cups low-sodium vegetable or chicken broth 
2 star anise pods 
1 (3-inch) cinnamon stick 
2 large eggs 
14 ounces fresh or frozen udon noodles 
4 to 5 large bok choy leaves, sliced into ribbons 
2 scallions, thinly sliced 
3 to 4 tablespoons soy sauce 
Bring the broth to a simmer in a medium saucepan over medium heat. (The broth should be about 2 inches deep in the pan.) Add the star anise and cinnamon and simmer for 5 to 10 minutes to infuse the broth with the spices. When finished, use a slotted spoon to remove the spices. 

Crack the eggs into separate measuring cups and slip them into the simmering broth, one at a time. Cook for 2 minutes, then add the noodles and bok choy. Stir very gently to submerge the noodles and bok choy, but so as not to break the eggs. Cook for another 2 minutes, until the whites of the eggs are completely set but the yolks are still loose. (Cook for an additional minute if you like your yolks set.) 

Off the heat, gently stir in the soy sauce and the scallions. Taste and add more soy sauce if necessary. Divide the soup between 2 bowls and eat immediately. 

Per serving, based on 2 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories1088 
Fat15 g (23%) 
Saturated3.9 g (19.3%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs186.6 g (62.2%) 
Fiber13.6 g (54.2%) 
Sugars21.3 g 
Protein52.1 g (104.2%) 
Cholesterol176.2 mg (58.7%) 
Sodium1331.2 mg (55.5%) 

Recipe: Lemon Potato Chowder 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 6 to 8 
4 tablespoons unsalted  
1 medium yellow onion, diced 
1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more as needed 
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
Freshly ground black pepper 
2 medium stalks celery, diced 
1 medium carrot, diced 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
6 small Yukon Gold potatoes, scrubbed and cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
4 cups (1 quart) low-sodium chicken broth 
Finely grated zest of 1 lemon 
2 fresh or dried bay leaves 
3/4 cup half-and-half 
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice 
Fresh parsley leaves, for garnish (optional) 

Melt the butter in a Dutch oven or large saucepan over medium heat. Add the onion, salt, red pepper flakes, and black pepper. Cook, stirring often, until the onion is translucent and very soft, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the celery, carrot, and garlic. Cook, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes more. 

Stir in the potatoes and cook 2 minutes. Add the stock, lemon zest, and bay leaves. Bring to a simmer, then reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer until the potatoes are fork-tender, 20 minutes. 


Remove the bay leaves. Purée the soup in a stand blender or with an immersion blender until it is just smooth but still has a bit of texture. Return to the pot. Stir in the half-and-half and then the lemon juice. Reheat over low heat until warm. Taste and season with salt or pepper as needed. Ladle into bowls and garnish with parsley if using. 


Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. 

Per serving, based on 6 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories282 
Fat9 g (13.9%) 
Saturated5.3 g (26.3%) 
Trans0.3 g 
Carbs45.2 g (15.1%) 
Fiber6.3 g (25.2%) 
Sugars3.9 g 
Protein8.3 g (16.6%) 
Cholesterol20.4 mg (6.8%) 
Sodium468.8 mg (19.5%) 

Udon Noodle Soup with Bok Choy and Poached Egg 
PRINT RECIPE  

Serves 2 

4 to 5 cups low-sodium vegetable or chicken broth 
2 star anise pods 
1 (3-inch) cinnamon stick 
2 large eggs 
14 ounces fresh or frozen udon noodles 
4 to 5 large bok choy leaves, sliced into ribbons 
2 scallions, thinly sliced 
3 to 4 tablespoons soy sauce 
Bring the broth to a simmer in a medium saucepan over medium heat. (The broth should be about 2 inches deep in the pan.) Add the star anise and cinnamon and simmer for 5 to 10 minutes to infuse the broth with the spices. When finished, use a slotted spoon to remove the spices. 

Crack the eggs into separate measuring cups and slip them into the simmering broth, one at a time. Cook for 2 minutes, then add the noodles and bok choy. Stir very gently to submerge the noodles and bok choy, but so as not to break the eggs. Cook for another 2 minutes, until the whites of the eggs are completely set but the yolks are still loose. (Cook for an additional minute if you like your yolks set. 

Off the heat, gently stir in the soy sauce and the scallions. Taste and add more soy sauce if necessary. Divide the soup between 2 bowls and eat immediately. 

Per serving, based on 2 servings. (% daily value)  
Calories1088  
Fat15 g (23%)  
Saturated3.9 g (19.3%)  
Trans0 g 
Carbs186.6 g (62.2%)  
Fiber13.6 g (54.2%)  
Sugars21.3 g  
Protein52.1 g (104.2%)  
Cholesterol176.2 mg (58.7%)  
Sodium1331.2 mg (55.5%)  

Recipe: Lemon Potato Chowder 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 6 to 8 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
1 medium yellow onion, diced  
1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more as needed 
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
Freshly ground black pepper 
2 medium stalks celery, diced 
1 medium carrot, diced 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
6 small Yukon Gold potatoes, scrubbed and cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
4 cups (1 quart) low-sodium chicken broth 
Finely grated zest of 1 lemon 
2 fresh or dried bay leaves   
3/4 cup half-and-half 
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice 
Fresh parsley leaves, for garnish (optional) 

Melt the butter in a Dutch oven or large saucepan over medium heat. Add the onion, salt, red pepper flakes, and black pepper. Cook, stirring often, until the onion is translucent and very soft, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the celery, carrot, and garlic. Cook, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes more. 

Stir in the potatoes and cook 2 minutes. Add the stock, lemon zest, and bay leaves. Bring to a simmer, then reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer until the potatoes are fork-tender, 20 minutes. 

Remove the bay leaves. Purée the soup in a stand blender or with an immersion blender until it is just smooth but still has a bit of texture. Return to the pot. Stir in the half-and-half and then the lemon juice. Reheat over low heat until warm. Taste and season with salt or pepper as needed. Ladle into bowls and garnish with parsley if using. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. 

Per serving, based on 6 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories282 
Fat9 g (13.9%) 
Saturated5.3 g (26.3%) 
Trans0.3 g 
Carbs45.2 g (15.1%) 
Fiber6.3 g (25.2%) 
Sugars3.9 g 
Protein8.3 g (16.6%) 
Cholesterol20.4 mg (6.8%) 
Sodium468.8 mg (19.5%) 

Recipe: Sesame-Ginger Roasted Broccoli 
PRINT RECIPE  


Serves 4 
2 medium heads broccoli (about 1 1/2 pounds total), or 2 (10-ounce) bags frozen broccoli florets 
2 tablespoons toasted (Asian) sesame oil, or other neutral cooking oil 
2 tablespoons soy sauce or tamari 
1 (1-inch) piece fresh ginger, peeled and finely chopped 
3 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds 

Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 425°F. If using fresh broccoli, cut off the woody part of the stems and cut the rest into bite-sized florets. 

Place the fresh or frozen broccoli on a large, rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle with the oil and soy sauce or tamari. Sprinkle with the ginger, toss to evenly coat, and spread into a single layer. 

Roast until the broccoli is tender and beginning to brown at the edges, about 30 minutes for fresh or 40 minutes for frozen, stirring halfway through. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories212 
Fat11.5 g (17.7%) 
Saturated1.1 g (5.6%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs22.9 g (7.6%) 
Fiber8.8 g (35.4%) 
Sugars5.4 g 
Protein10.8 g (21.6%) 
Sodium604.3 mg (25.2%) 

Vegetarian Ph? (Vietnamese Noodle Soup) 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 2 

For the broth: 
1 large onion, peeled and halved 
1 (2-inch) piece fresh ginger, peeled and halved lengthwise 
1 (3-inch) cinnamon stick, preferably Vietnamese cassia-cinnamon 
1 star anise 
2 whole cloves 
1 teaspoon coriander seeds 
4 cups unsalted vegetable stock or broth 
2 teaspoons tamari or soy sauce 
4 medium carrots, peeled and coarsely chopped 
For the noodles:  
8 ounces dried flat rice noodles (known as bánh ph?: use 1/16, 1/8, or 1/4 width depending on availability and preference) 
For the toppings (choose a few):  
Protein, such as fried or baked tofu, bean curd skin, or seitan 
Mushrooms 
Vegetables, such as bok choy, napa cabbage, or broccoli 
For the garnishes (choose a few): 
1/2 large onion, very thinly sliced 
2 medium scallions, thinly sliced 
1 chile pepper (Thai bird, serrano, or jalapeño), sliced 
1 medium lime, cut into wedges 
1/2 cup bean sprouts 
Large handful of herbs, such as cilantro, Thai basil, or cilantro 
Hoisin sauce, Sriracha (optional) 
To make the broth, char the onion and ginger over an open flame (holding with tongs) or directly under a broiler until slightly blackened, about 5 minutes on each side. Rinse with water and set aside. 

Place the cinnamon, star anise, cloves, and coriander in a large pot over medium-low heat and dry-roast, stirring to prevent burning. When you can smell the aroma of the roasted spices, add the vegetable stock, tamari or soy sauce, carrots, and charred onion and ginger. 

Bring the broth to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer, covered, for 30 minutes. Strain out the solids and keep hot until ready to serve. Make the noodles while the broth simmers. 

Place the noodles in a large bowl and cover with hot water. Let stand for 20 to 30 minutes or until tender but still chewy. Drain. (If soaking does not soften the noodles enough, blanch them in a pot of boiling water for a few seconds.) 

Prepare the toppings as desired – slice and cook tofu, lightly steam or blanch vegetables, and so on. Toppings should be unseasoned or only lightly seasoned so as not to interfere with the flavor of the broth. 

To serve, divide the noodles between 2 bowls. Arrange toppings over noodles. Ladle the broth between the 2 bowls. Serve with garnishes on the side, which diners should add to taste. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftover broth can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days or frozen for up to 3 months. 

Per serving, based on 2 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories539 
Fat1.7 g (2.6%) 
Saturated0.3 g (1.7%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs120.4 g (40.1%) 
Fiber9.8 g (39.2%) 
Sugars11.4 g 
Protein10.8 g (21.7%) 
Sodium664.6 mg (27.7%) 

The Easiest Thai Green Curry 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 8 

1 tablespoon vegetable or peanut oil 
2 to 4 ounces Thai green curry paste, such as Maesri 
2 (13.5-ounce) cans coconut milk, such as Chaokoh 
1 1/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breast or thighs, cut into 1-inch pieces 
8 ounces cuttlefish balls, thawed if frozen (optional) 
1 pound zucchini, cut into thick half-moons 
Fish sauce 
Granulated sugar 
Tamari or soy sauce 
Cooked rice or rice noodles, for serving 
Heat the oil in a 4-quart (or larger) Dutch oven or heavy pot set over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add the curry paste. Be cautious, as it will sputter. Fry the paste for 2 minutes, stirring frequently. This will be quite pungent, so turn on the fan or vent! 

Scoop the thickened coconut solids out of both cans of coconut milk, leaving the watery milk below, and add to the pot. Fry these solids for about 2 minutes along with the curry paste, until the oil starts to separate out, forming beads on top of the curry paste. Add the chicken and stir to combine. 

Add the remaining coconut milk and the cuttlefish balls if desired. Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer until the chicken is cooked through and the fish balls are warm, about 20 minutes. 

Add the zucchini and simmer just until tender. Taste and adjust seasonings with fish sauce, sugar, and tamari soy sauce until it is balanced enough for your tastes. Serve over rice or rice noodles. 

Recipe Notes 
On heat: For a fully tongue-tingling experience, use the full 4-ounce can. If you have a lower tolerance for heat, use half the can. 

More vegetables: The last time I made this I took a tip from Andrea's recent series and seared some baby bok choy and red peppers and added them to the curry just before serving. This added a nice extra serving of vegetables, not to mention color and crunch. But again, optional. 

Storage: Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. 

Per serving, based on 8 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories481 
Fat37.7 g (58.1%) 
Saturated30.3 g (151.6%) 
Trans0 g 

Recipe: Slow Cooker Broccoli Cheddar Soup from The Pioneer Woman 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 10 to 12 
1 pound frozen broccoli florets 
5 cups low-sodium chicken broth  
1 medium onion, diced 
2 medium carrots, finely diced 
2 (10.5-ounce) cans cream of celery soup 
1/4 teaspoon seasoned salt 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1 1/2 pounds processed melting cheese, such as Velveeta 
2 cups shredded sharp Cheddar cheese (8 ounces), plus more for serving 
Crumbled saltine crackers, for serving 
Place the broccoli, chicken broth, onions, carrots, cream of celery soup, seasoned salt, kosher salt, black pepper, and cayenne in a slow cooker and stir to combine. Cover and cook on the HIGH setting for 4 hours. The veggies will be soft and the flavors will be marvelous! 

Use an immersion blender or potato masher to purée the soup about three-quarters of the way smooth in order to leave some chunks for delicious texture. (Alternatively, use a regular blender. Just be sure to blend only 1 cup at a time and use extreme caution. Then return it to the slow cooker.) 

Add the processed cheese and cheddar and to combine. Cover, turn the heat to the LOW setting, and cook for 15 minutes. Utterly creamy and delicious! 

Here's where you want to taste the soup and add more of what you'd like: a little more salt, a little more cayenne, and so on. Serve it warm with a sprinkling of Cheddar and some crumbled saltines. 

Recipe Notes  
Variations 
Broccoli-Cauliflower Cheddar Soup: Substitute frozen cauliflower for half the frozen broccoli if desired. 
Bacon Broccoli-Cheddar Soup: Add 6 cooked, crumbled slices of bacon with the cheese. 
Chile Broccoli-Cheddar Soup: Add 2 drained (4-ounce) cans green chiles with the cheese. 
Monterey Jack substitution: Use Monterey Jack or pepper Jack instead of the cheddar. 

Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 

Recipe from The Pioneer Woman Cooks: Come and Get It! by Ree Drummond. Copyright © 2017 by Ree Drummond. Reprinted by permission of William Morrow, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers. All rights reserved. 

Per serving, based on 10 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories362 
Fat24.9 g (38.4%) 
Saturated14.8 g (73.9%) 
Trans0.3 g 
Carbs15.2 g (5.1%) 
Sugars6.8 g 
Protein20.9 g (41.9%) 
Cholesterol81.1 mg (27%) 
Sodium1374.3 mg (57.3%)  

Recipe: Peppermint Mocha Snack Cake 
PRINT RECIPE  

Makes 1 (9x13-inch) cake: 12 to 15 servings 
For the cake: 
Cooking spray or butter 
3/4 cup unsweetened natural cocoa powder 
1 cup black coffee, hot 
2 cups granulated sugar 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda 
1 teaspoon fine salt 
2 large eggs, at room temperature 
1 cup whole or 2% milk 
1/2 cup vegetable oil 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
For the frosting: 
1/3 cup unsweetened natural cocoa powder 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted 
1/2 cup whole or 2% milk 
1/2 teaspoon peppermint extract 
3 1/2 cups powdered sugar 
1/4 cup finely crushed peppermint candies (12 to 15) 

Make the cake: Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 325°F. Generously coat a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray or butter: set aside. 

Place the cocoa powder in a medium heatproof bowl. Add the coffee and whisk until smooth: set aside.

Place the sugar, flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and whisk to combine. (Alternatively, use an electric hand mixer and large bowl.) Add the eggs, milk, oil, and vanilla. Beat on medium speed until smooth and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add the cocoa mixture and beat on low speed until just combined, about 1 minute more. The batter will be thin. Transfer the batter to the baking dish. 

Bake for 30 minutes. Rotate the baking dish and bake until a tester inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean, 20 to 30 minutes more. Remove the pan to a wire rack and let cool until warm to the touch, about 1 hour. Meanwhile, make the frosting. 

Make the frosting: Place the cocoa powder in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. (Alternatively, use an electric hand mixer and large bowl.) Add the butter and whisk until dissolved. Add milk and peppermint extract. Turn the mixer to low speed and slowly add the powdered sugar. Once incorporated, increase the speed to medium and mix until smooth and creamy. 

Spread the frosting in an even layer on the cake. Sprinkle with the crushed peppermint candies. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftovers can be wrapped in plastic wrap and stored at room temperature for up to 3 days. 


Per serving, based on 15 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories436 
Fat16.5 g (25.3%) 
Saturated5.9 g (29.6%) 
Trans0.3 g 
Carbs72.6 g (24.2%) 
Fiber2.9 g (11.5%) 
Sugars57.1 g 
Protein4.6 g (9.1%) 
Cholesterol43 mg (14.3%) 

Recipe: Christmas Funfetti Bar Cookies 
PRINT RECIPE 


Makes 24 bars 
For the cookie layer: 
Cooking spray 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
3/4 teaspoon fine salt 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar 
2 large eggs 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/4 teaspoon almond extract 
1/2 cup sprinkles 
For the frosting: 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1/4 teaspoon fine salt 
4 cups (1 pound) powdered sugar, sifted 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/4 teaspoon almond extract 
2 tablespoons heavy cream 
1/3 cup sprinkles, plus more for decorating if desired 
Make the cookie layer: Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 350°F. Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with a parchment sling, leaving several inches of parchment hanging over the 2 long sides of the pan. Spray the pan and parchment with cooking spray and set aside. 

Whisk the flour, baking powder, and salt together in a medium bowl: set aside. 

Place the butter and sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (Alternatively, use an electric hand mixer and a large bowl). Beat on on medium speed until fluffy and lightened in color, about 3 minutes. Stop to scrape down the sides of the bowl with a spatula as needed. 

Add the eggs and beat on medium speed, making sure that the first egg is fully incorporated before adding the second. Add the vanilla and almond extracts and beat for 30 seconds. Stop the mixer and scrape down the sides of the bowl and the paddle. 

Turn the mixer to low speed and slowly add the flour mixture. Stop mixing when the flour is completely incorporated. Remove the bowl from the mixer. Add the sprinkles and stir with a stiff spatula until evenly distributed. 

Transfer the dough into the prepared baking pan and spread into an even layer with wet fingers or an offset spatula. Bake until golden-brown around the edges and light brown across the top, 20 to 25 minutes. 

Place the pan on a wire rack and cool for 10 minutes. Use the parchment sling to lift the cookie slab out of the pan, then place the slab on the wire rack to cool completely. While the cookie slab cools, make the frosting. 

Make the frosting: Place the butter and salt in a clean bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (Alternatively, use an electric hand mixer and large bowl.) Beat on medium speed until lightened in color and creamy, about 3 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the bowl as needed. 

Turn the mixer to low speed and add the powdered sugar, 1 cup at a time, until incorporated. With the mixer still running, add the vanilla extract, almond extract, and cream. Increase the speed to medium and beat until smooth and creamy, about 2 minutes. Remove the bowl from the mixer and fold in the sprinkles. Cover with a clean, damp towel until ready to use. If the frosting starts to dry and develop a crust, simply beat again with the mixer until creamy. 

Once the cookie slab has cooled, scoop the frosting onto the slab and use an offset spatula to spread into an even layer. Top with additional sprinkles if desired. Let sit at room temperature for at least 30 minutes to let the frosting form a crust. Trim the edges of the slab if desired, then slice into 24 bars. 

Recipe Notes 
Make ahead: The frosting can be made up to 1 week in advance and refrigerated. Let come to room temperature and beat until creamy before using. 
Storage: Store leftovers in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days, or wrap in foil and freeze for up to 3 months. Thaw at room temperature before serving. 

Per serving, based on 24 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories317 
Fat16.3 g (25.1%) 
Saturated10.2 g (50.8%) 
Trans0.6 g 
Carbs41.5 g (13. 8%) 
Fiber0.4 g (1.4%) 
Sugars31.1 g  
Protein2.1 g (4.1%)
Cholesterol57.9 mg (19.3%)
Sodium121.3 mg (5.1%)

How To Make the Best Rugelach Cookies 
PRINT RECIPE 

Makes 64 cookies 
What You Need 
Ingredients 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
1/4 teaspoon fine salt 
8 ounces cold cream cheese, cubed 
2 sticks (1 cup) cold unsalted butter, cubed 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1 large egg yolk 
1 batch filling (see ideas below) 
Powdered sugar 

Equipment 
Food processor 
Rolling pin 
Pizza cutter or sharp knife 
2 baking sheets 
Parchment or silicone baking mats 

Instructions 
Combine the flour and salt. Combine the flour and salt in the bowl of a food processor fitted with the blade attachment. Pulse several times to mix. 
Mix in the cream cheese and butter. Scatter the cubes of cream cheese and butter over the flour. Pulse until coarse crumbs form, 10 to 12 pulses. 
Mix in the yolk and vanilla. Whisk the vanilla and yolk together in a small bowl. Drizzle over the butter-flour mixture. Process until the dough starts to clump together and form large, curd-like pieces. 
Refrigerate the dough. Transfer the dough out onto the counter and gather the pieces into a ball. Divide into 4 portions and flatten each into 1-inch-thick disks. Wrap each disk in plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 2 hours or up to 3 days, or freeze for up to 3 months (thaw in the refrigerator before using). 
When ready to bake the rugelach, preheat the oven to 375°F. Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 375°F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Meanwhile, prepare the fillings. 
Roll out the dough. Sprinkle your work surface generously with powdered sugar. Take 1 disk of dough from the refrigerator and let it warm on the counter for 1 to 2 minutes. Unwrap and then sprinkle the surface of the dough and the rolling pin with more powdered sugar. Roll the dough from the center out into a circle about 1/8-inch thick. Don't worry if a few cracks form near the edges. Use more powdered sugar as needed to prevent sticking. 
Spread with filling. Spread the filling in a thin layer evenly over the surface of the dough. Make sure it goes right up to the edge of the dough.
Cut and roll the cookies. Using a pizza cutter or sharp knife, cut the dough into 16 wedges, like a pizza. Beginning at the wide outer edge and moving inward, roll up each wedge. Transfer to a parchment-lined baking sheet. Make sure the tip is tucked underneath. 
Chill the cookies. Refrigerate cookies on the baking sheet, 20 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare remaining batches. 
Bake the cookies. Bake the first tray of cookies until golden-brown, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool on the sheet, 5 minutes: transfer to a wire rack. Bake the remaining cookies, using the same parchment paper but making sure the baking sheet is cooled between batches. 
Ideas for Rugelach Fillings 
Nut filling: In a food processor, pulse 1 cup walnuts and 1 cup pecans until they break into tiny crumbs, 30 to 40 pulses. (Be careful of over-processing and making nut butter.) Combine the ground nuts in a bowl with 4 tablespoons (1/4 cup) melted butter, 1/4 cup honey, 1/4 cup granulated sugar, and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. 
Fruit and jam filling: Warm 1/4 cup marmalade, apricot jam, or raspberry jam in the microwave until it liquefies. Stir in 1 tablespoon sugar. Set aside to cool until no longer steaming, still liquidy. Pulse 2 cups (roughly 10 ounces) dried fruit, such as apricots, cranberries, cherries, or currants, in a food processor until it breaks down into tiny pieces. To assemble, spread the jam onto the rugelach dough and then sprinkle the dried fruit on top. 
Peanut butter and chocolate filling: Warm 1/2 cup peanut butter in a microwave until it liquefies but isn't boiling. Spread over the rugelach dough: sprinkle with 1 cup miniature chocolate chips. 
Recipe Notes 
Freezing rugelach: The disks of dough can be frozen for up to 3 months: thaw in the refrigerator overnight before using. The shaped cookies can also be frozen for up to 3 months. Arrange cookies on a baking sheet, making sure they do not touch, and freeze until solid. Transfer to a freezer container for long-term storage. Cookies can be baked straight from the freezer and may need an extra few minutes to bake. 
Making rugelach by hand: If you don't have a food processor, just cut the cream cheese and the butter into the flour mixture using your fingertips or a pastry cutter, just as you would for pie crust. Sprinkle the yolk mixture over the top and fluff the dough with your fingers until it feels heavy and can hold together when pressed into a ball. Proceed with the rest of the recipe as instructed. 
Halving this recipe: Nix the egg yolk and cut the rest of the ingredients in half. 
Storage: Cookies will keep in an airtight container at room temperature for about a week. 

Per serving, based on 64 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories53 
Fat4.2 g (6.5%) 
Saturated2.5 g (12.7%) 
Trans0.1 g 
Carbs3.1 g (1%) 
Fiber0.1 g (0.4%) 
Sugars0.1 g 
Protein0.7 g (1.4%) 
Cholesterol14.4 mg (4.8%) 

How To Make Flourless Chocolate Cookies 
PRINT RECIPE 
Makes 36 
(2-inch) cookies 
What You Need 
Ingredients 
Cooking spray 
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar (12 ounces)  
1/2 cup Dutch-process cocoa powder 
1/2 cup black cocoa powder 
1 teaspoon espresso powder 
1/2 teaspoon fine salt 
3 large egg whites 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
2 cups dark chocolate chips 
Equipment 
Measuring cups and spoons 
Mixing bowl 
Electric hand mixer 
Cookie scoop (optional) 
Parchment paper 
Baking sheets 
Instructions 
Line and grease two baking sheets with parchment paper, and prepare a third sheet of parchment paper. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper, and cut or prepare a third sheet of parchment. Spray each sheet of parchment with cooking spray — this may seem redundant, but these cookies are extremely sticky and this step will guarantee no stuck cookies. 
Whisk together the dry ingredients. Place the powdered sugar, Dutch cocoa, black cocoa, espresso powder, and salt in a large bowl and whisk until mostly homogenous: some lumps are okay. 
Add the egg whites and vanilla to dry ingredients, beat well. Add the egg whites and vanilla and then beat them into the dry ingredients. A hand mixer on low speed does this best, but a wooden spoon and some arm strength works too. At first the mixture will be very dry and thick, but will gradually become shiny, loose, and sticky. 
Fold in the chocolate chips. Add the chocolate chips and use a spoon or spatula to fold into the batter. 
Scoop the cookies onto the prepared parchment and rest 30 minutes. Scoop the dough into tablespoon-sized balls and place them evenly on the parchment sheets, 12 per sheet. Set aside for at least 30 minutes while the oven preheats. 
Preheat the oven to 350°F and bake the cookies. Arrange 2 racks to divide the oven into thirds and heat to 350°F. Bake 2 sheets of cookies at a time. The cookies are done when they've spread and are shiny and cracked, 8 to 10 minutes. 
Cool for 1 minute on the baking sheets. Place the baking sheets on a wire rack to cool for 1 minute. Carefully slide the parchment paper with the cookies still on them onto the rack. Now you can slide the third and final parchment sheet of cookies onto one of the baking sheets and continue baking. Cool the cookies completely before storing. 
Recipe Notes  
Cocoa powder: Substitute 1 cup Hershey's Dark Cocoa Powder for the Dutch and black cocoa powders. 
Storage: These cookies last for about 1 week when stored at room temperature in an airtight container. 

Per serving, based on 36 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories90 
Fat3.2 g (4.9%) 
Saturated1.9 g (9.5%) 
Carbs17 g (5.7%) 
Fiber1.5 g (5.8%) 
Sugars14.6 g 
Protein1.2 g (2.3%) 
Sodium38.6 mg (1.6%) 

How To Make Flourless Chocolate Cookies 
PRINT RECIPE 
Makes 36 
(2-inch) cookies 
What You Need 
Ingredients 
Cooking spray 
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar (12 ounces)  
1/2 cup Dutch-process cocoa powder 
1/2 cup black cocoa powder 
1 teaspoon espresso powder 
1/2 teaspoon fine salt 
3 large egg whites 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
2 cups dark chocolate chips 
Equipment 
Measuring cups and spoons 
Mixing bowl 
Electric hand mixer 
Cookie scoop (optional) 
Parchment paper 
Baking sheets 
Instructions 
Line and grease two baking sheets with parchment paper, and prepare a third sheet of parchment paper. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper, and cut or prepare a third sheet of parchment. Spray each sheet of parchment with cooking spray — this may seem redundant, but these cookies are extremely sticky and this step will guarantee no stuck cookies. 
Whisk together the dry ingredients. Place the powdered sugar, Dutch cocoa, black cocoa, espresso powder, and salt in a large bowl and whisk until mostly homogenous: some lumps are okay. 
Add the egg whites and vanilla to dry ingredients, beat well. Add the egg whites and vanilla and then beat them into the dry ingredients. A hand mixer on low speed does this best, but a wooden spoon and some arm strength works too. At first the mixture will be very dry and thick, but will gradually become shiny, loose, and sticky. 
Fold in the chocolate chips. Add the chocolate chips and use a spoon or spatula to fold into the batter. 
Scoop the cookies onto the prepared parchment and rest 30 minutes. Scoop the dough into tablespoon-sized balls and place them evenly on the parchment sheets, 12 per sheet. Set aside for at least 30 minutes while the oven preheats. 
Preheat the oven to 350°F and bake the cookies. Arrange 2 racks to divide the oven into thirds and heat to 350°F. Bake 2 sheets of cookies at a time. The cookies are done when they've spread and are shiny and cracked, 8 to 10 minutes. 
Cool for 1 minute on the baking sheets. Place the baking sheets on a wire rack to cool for 1 minute. Carefully slide the parchment paper with the cookies still on them onto the rack. Now you can slide the third and final parchment sheet of cookies onto one of the baking sheets and continue baking. Cool the cookies completely before storing. 
Recipe Notes  
Cocoa powder: Substitute 1 cup Hershey's Dark Cocoa Powder for the Dutch and black cocoa powders. 
Storage: These cookies last for about 1 week when stored at room temperature in an airtight container. 

Per serving, based on 36 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories90 
Fat3.2 g (4.9%) 
Saturated1.9 g (9.5%) 
Carbs17 g (5.7%) 
Fiber1.5 g (5.8%) 
Sugars14.6 g 
Protein1.2 g (2.3%) 
Sodium38.6 mg (1.6%) 

Graham Cracker Cookies 
PRINT RECIPE 

Makes 12 cookies 

15 sheets graham crackers (5 x 2.25 graham crackers or 2 cups graham cracker crumbs) 
1/4 cup granulated sugar 
2 tablespoons packed dark brown sugar 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/4 teaspoon fine salt 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled 
1 large egg, lightly beaten 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
Equipment 
Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 350°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. 

Process the graham crackers in a food processor fitted with the blade attachment until they are completely broken down into crumbs and have a sandy texture. Transfer to a large bowl. 

Add the sugar, brown sugar, baking soda, and salt and whisk to combine. Add the butter, egg, and vanilla, then stir together with a rubber spatula until just combined into a soft dough. 

Using a spoon or cookie scoop, measure 1 1/2 tablespoons of dough from the bowl. Roll between the palms of your hands to form a ball, then place on the baking sheet. Repeat with forming the remaining dough, spacing the dough balls about 2 inches apart. 

Bake until the cookies have spread and the edges are lightly browned, 8 to 10 minutes. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes, then use a flat spatula to transfer to them to a wire rack to cool completely. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Store cookies in a sealed container at room temperature for up to 4 days. 

Per serving, based on 6 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories156 
Fat12.2 g (18.8%) 
Saturated7.5 g (37.6%) 
Trans0.5 g 
Carbs11.4 g (3.8%) 
Sugars11.3 g 
Protein1 g (2%) 
Cholesterol57.2 mg (19.1%) 
Sodium77.5 mg (3.2%) 

Recipe: Mint Chocolate Crinkle Cookies 
PRINT RECIPE 

Makes about 18 cookies 
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into cubes 
1/4 cup packed fresh mint leaves, coarsely chopped 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour 
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/4 teaspoon fine salt 
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar 
1 large egg 
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, melted and cooled 
1/4 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 cup powdered sugar 
Melt the butter with the mint in a small saucepan over medium heat, swirling occasionally. Once fragrant, 2 to 3 minutes, remove from the heat and let the mixture steep for 30 minutes. 

Meanwhile, place the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl and whisk to combine: set aside. 

Pour the butter through a fine-mesh strainer into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (Alternatively, strain into a large bowl and use an electric hand mixer.) Press the leaves to extract all of the butter from the leaves: discard the leaves. 

Add the brown sugar and beat on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add the egg and melted chocolate and beat until completely incorporated, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed. Gradually fold in the flour mixture on low speed until just combined. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate until firm, about 1 hour. 

Once chilled, remove the dough from the refrigerator. Arrange 2 racks to divide the oven into thirds and heat to 350°F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats: set aside. 

Place the granulated sugar and powdered sugar in separate small bowls. Scoop 1 tablespoon of the dough, form into a ball, and place on a plate. Repeat with the remaining dough. 

Roll each ball in granulated sugar and then in powdered sugar to coat. Place on the baking sheet 2 inches apart. Bake for 5 minutes. Rotate the baking sheets between racks and from front to back halfway through. Bake until the cookies are light golden-brown on the bottoms and around the edges, 5 to 7 minutes more. 
Place the baking sheets on wire racks and cool 3 minutes. Use a flat spatula to transfer the cookies to a wire rack to cool completely. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Store the baked cookies in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days. 
Make ahead: The cookie dough can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. It can also be shaped into balls, placed onto baking sheets until frozen solid, then stored in resealable freezer bags in the freezer for up to 3 months. Roll the frozen balls in granulated sugar and powdered sugar just before baking. Frozen cookies can be baked straight from the freezer but may need 1 to 2 minutes extra baking time. 

Per serving, based on 18 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories126 
Fat4.9 g (7.6%) 
Saturated2.9 g (14.7%) 
Trans0.1 g 
Carbs21 g (7%) 
Fiber1 g (4.2%) 
Sugars15.4 g 
Protein1.5 g (2.9%) 
Cholesterol17.1 mg (5.7%) 
Sodium60 mg (2.5%)  

Recipe: Red Wine Hot Chocolate 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 8 
5 ounces dark chocolate, finely chopped 
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder 
2 tablespoons packed brown sugar 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 quart (4 cups) whole milk 
Pinch of salt 
1 1/2 cups fruity red wine, such as Merlot, Shiraz, or Zinfandel 
Cinnamon sticks and additional cocoa powder, for serving (optional) 

Whisk the chocolate, cocoa powder, sugar, and cinnamon together in a large saucepan. Add the milk and bring to a simmer over medium heat, whisking occasionally, until hot and smooth, about 5 minutes. Stir in the salt. 

Remove from the heat and add the wine. Divide among 8 small glasses or mugs, garnish with a cinnamon stick and a dusting of cocoa powder, if desired, and serve. 

Per serving, based on 8 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories208 
Fat9.5 g (14.6%) 
Saturated5.5 g (27.6%) 
Carbs21.4 g (7.1%) 
Fiber1.6 g (6.4%) 
Sugars18.3 g 
Protein4.9 g (9.8%) 
Cholesterol12.2 mg (4.1%) 
Sodium93.4 mg (3.9%) 

How To Make Homemade Eggnog 
PRINT RECIPE 

Makes 6 cups 

What You Need 
Ingredients 
6 large eggs 
1 cup granulated sugar 
2 cups whole milk 
1 cup heavy cream 
1/2 to 1 1/2 cups bourbon, rum, cognac, or a mix, optional 
Freshly grated nutmeg, for serving 
Equipment 
Mixing bowls 
Whisk 
Pitcher 
Stand mixer or hand mixer 
Microplane or nutmeg grater 
Instructions 
Separate the eggs. Separate the eggs, placing the yolks in a medium bowl and the whites in a large bowl (I recommend the 3-Bowl Method for this step). Cover the whites and refrigerate until needed, or freeze if aging the eggnog for longer than a day. 

Whisk the yolks with the sugar. Add the sugar to the yolks and whisk by hand or with a mixer until the mixture is smooth, creamy, and lightened to a lemon-yellow color. 

Whisk in the milk, cream, and liquor (if using). Add the milk, cream, and liquor and whisk until combined.

Cover and refrigerate. Cover the bowl and refrigerate for at least 1 hour. The more liquor you add, the longer it will keep — non-alcoholic eggnog should be consumed within 1 day: eggnog with 1/2 to 1 cup of liquor will keep for several days: and eggnog with 1 1/2 cups of liquor will keep for several weeks and continue aging and thickening quite nicely. (If aging for longer than a few days, transfer the eggnog to a sealed glass container or a mason jar.) 

Whisk the egg whites. Just before serving, whisk the reserved egg whites in a stand mixer or with a hand mixer at high speed until the whites form stiff peaks. 

Fold the egg whites into the eggnog. Transfer the beaten egg whites to the bowl with the eggnog and gently fold or stir the whites into the base — this gives the eggnog a frothy, extra-creamy texture. Some of the egg whites will also float to the top, like cappuccino foam. 

Serve the eggnog. Transfer the eggnog to a pitcher or punch bowl. Serve in individual glasses with a grating of nutmeg over top. 

Recipe Notes 
Raw eggs: This recipe contains raw eggs. Use very fresh, organic eggs if at all possible. Be aware that consuming raw or undercooked eggs can increase your risk for certain food-borne illnesses, especially if you have a medical condition. 

Cooked eggnog: If you'd prefer to cook your eggnog, follow these instructions. Warm the milk and cream in a saucepan over medium heat until just starting to bubble around the edges. Meanwhile, whisk the egg yolks together in a separate bowl. Slowly whisk the warm milk into the eggs, then return the mixture to medium heat and continue to cook, stirring gently, until thickened to your eggnog-y liking. Serve immediately or chill for up to 3 days before serving. For extra thickness, whip up 1 cup of heavy cream and fold into the eggnog before serving. 

Even richer eggnog: Feel free to play with the proportions of whole milk to cream, keeping 3 cups total dairy. Heavy cream will make your eggnog thicker and creamier. Boozy eggnog will also continue to thicken in the fridge as it ages. 

Per serving, based on 10 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories278 
Fat12.8 g (19.8%) 
Saturated7.2 g (36%) 
Trans0 g 
Carbs23.2 g (7.7%) 
Sugars23.2 g 
Protein5.3 g (10.5%) 
Cholesterol133.5 mg (44.5%) 
Sodium67.1 mg (2.8%)  

Recipe: Sparkling Pear Hanukkah Sangria 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 6 to 8 
1 (750-milliliter) bottle prosecco, cava, or other dry white sparkling wine, chilled 
1 1/2 cups pear liqueur, chilled 
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice (from 1 to 2 lemons) 
3 medium green pears, such as D'Anjou or Bartlett, cored and thinly sliced  
1 1/2 cups seltzer or club soda, chilled 
Ice (optional) 

Combine the prosecco, pear liqueur, lemon juice, and pear slices in a large pitcher. Top with the seltzer. Pour into glasses with or without ice. 

Recipe Notes 
Pear liqueur substitution: Use St. Germain Elderflower liqueur if pear liqueur is unavailable. 

Per serving, based on 8 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories292 
Fat0.3 g (0.4%) 
Saturated0.1 g (0.4%) 
Carbs37.5 g (12.5%) 
Fiber2.1 g (8.4%) 
Sugars27.6 g 
Protein0.4 g (0.8%) 
Sodium18.9 mg (0.8%) 

Recipe: Thanksgiving Jello Shots 
PRINT RECIPE 


Makes 24  
24 (2-ounce) plastic condiment cups, preferably with lids 
1 (3-ounce) box cranberry-flavored powdered gelatin 
3 cups water, divided 
1 cup very cold vodka, divided 
1 (3-ounce) box orange-flavored powdered gelatin  
Whipped cream or sugared cranberries, for serving 

Clear a space in your refrigerator so that a rimmed baking sheet can lay flat. Arrange the plastic cups in a single layer in the baking sheet. 

Sprinkle the cranberry-flavored gelatin into a large heatproof bowl. Bring 1 cup of the water to a boil. Pour the boiling water over the gelatin and whisk until dissolved. Add 1/2 cup of water and 1/2 cup of vodka and whisk to combine. 

Pour about 3/4 ounce of the cranberry mixture into each cup: the cups should be half-filled. Carefully transfer the tray with the condiment cups to the refrigerator and chill until set, 2 to 3 hours. 

While the cranberry layer chills, make the orange gelatin mixture using the same method and amounts as the cranberry layer. Do not transfer the mixture to the cups yet — set aside the bowl at room temperature to cool for at least 1 hour. Once the cranberry layer has set, divide the orange gelatin evenly among the cups. Refrigerate until set, at least 4 hours. If you're not ready to serve yet, cover the cups — especially if you will be transporting them. 

When ready to serve, remove from the refrigerator and top each shot with a small dollop of whipped cream. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: The covered shots (without whipped cream) can be refrigerated for 7 to 10 days. 
Unmolding jello shots: To serve the jello shots out of their cups, hold the cup upside down under warm running water for a few seconds until the shot slips out of the cup. Transfer to a serving platter and top with whipped cream. 

Per serving, based on 24 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories48 
Carbs6.4 g (2.1%) 
Sugars6.1 g 
Protein0.6 g (1.1%) 
Sodium34.3 mg (1.4%) 

Slow Cooker Spiked Mulled Cider 

Makes about 16 (8-ounce) drinks 
1 gallon fresh apple cider or unfiltered apple juice 
1 medium orange 
1 (1 1/2-inch) piece fresh ginger 
5 (3-inch) cinnamon sticks 
1 tablespoon whole cloves 
5 star anise pods 
1 1/2 cups bourbon, brandy, or dark rum 
Orange slices, for serving (optional) 

Pour the cider or juice into a 5-quart or larger slow cooker. 

Cut the orange into 1/4-inch-thick rounds. Cut the ginger into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Add both to the slow cooker. 

Add the cinnamon sticks, cloves, and star anise. To make it easier to serve, place the cloves and star anise pods in a tea ball first, or place in a double layer of cheesecloth or coffee filter, gather it up into a sachet, and tie closed with kitchen twine. 

Cover the slow cooker and cook until the flavors meld, 4 hours on LOW. Add the bourbon, brandy, or rum and stir to combine. Let sit for 10 minutes for the flavors to meld. Keep warm and serve in mugs garnished with orange slices. 

Recipe Notes 
Apple cider: Buy fresh apple cider or unfiltered apple juice for the best flavor. Do not use sparkling cider, spiced cider, hard cider, or clear apple juice. 
Storage: Leftover cider can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. 

The Gold Rush 
PRINT RECIPE 

Makes 2 drinks 

3 tablespoons honey 
2 tablespoons boiling water 
1/2 cup bourbon (4 ounces) 
1 1/2 lemons, juiced, (about 4 tablespoons or 2 ounces) 
Pour honey into a small jar or mixing bowl. Pour in the boiling water and whisk vigorously until they form a thin syrup. Whisk in the bourbon and lemon juice. Mixture can be refrigerated until ready to serve. 
To serve, shake vigorously with ice in a cocktail shaker. Strain over a big ice cube in 2 rocks glass. 
Recipe Notes 
To Serve Pitcher Gold-Rush Cocktails: Multiply all ingredients by the number of guests you are serving. Combine in a pitcher and refrigerate until serving. To serve, shake each cocktail individually and pour over ice. 

Per serving, based on 2 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories16 
Fat0.2 g (0.3%) 
Saturated0 g (0.1%) 
Carbs5.3 g (1.8%) 
Fiber1.6 g (6.4%) 
Sugars1.4 g 
Protein0.6 g (1.2%) 
Sodium1.7 mg (0.1%) 

Recipe: Soft & Chewy Granola 
PRINT RECIPE 


Makes about 5 cups 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
3/4 cup millet 
1 cup skin-on raw almonds, coarsely chopped  
1/4 cup pumpkin seeds 
1/2 cup sunflower seeds 
1/3 cup dried apricots, coarsely chopped  
1/4 cup chia seeds 
1/3 cup flaxseed meal 
1/4 cup sesame seeds 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons honey 
Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. 

Heat the oil in a large frying pan over medium heat until shimmering. Add the millet and cook, stirring frequently, until toasted and golden-brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool for 5 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl. 

Add the almonds, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, apricots, chia seeds, flaxseed meal, sesame seeds, melted butter, and 1/2 cup of honey and stir to combine. 

Pour the mixture onto the prepared baking sheet and spread into an even layer. Bake for 20 minutes. Stir the mixture, drizzle the remaining 2 tablespoons of honey over it, and bake for 10 minutes more. 

Transfer the baking sheet to a cooling rack and cool the granola completely. Store in an airtight container. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Granola will keep well in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 2 weeks. 

Per serving, based on 12 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories302 
Fat17.7 g (27.2%) 
Saturated3.9 g (19.6%) 
Trans0.2 g 
Carbs32.7 g (10.9%) 
Fiber6.1 g (24.2%) 
Sugars17 g 
Protein7.3 g (14.6%) 
Cholesterol10.2 mg (3.4%) 
Sodium3.8 mg (0.2%) 

Recipe: Pepper Parmesan Crackers 
PRINT RECIPE 

Makes about 6 dozen crackers 
1 cup whole-wheat pastry flour 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon dry mustard 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cubed 
2/3 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese 
6 to 8 tablespoons ice water 

Place the whole-wheat flour, all-purpose flour, salt, pepper, mustard, and garlic powder in a food processor fitted with the blade attachment. Pulse a couple of times to combine. 

Add the cold butter cubes and process until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs, about 10 seconds. Add the Parmesan and pulse once or twice to combine. Add the water a few tablespoons at a time, and pulse until tiny moist clumps form. You might not need all the water. 

Turn dough out onto a clean work surface. Divide into 2 pieces and flatten each into a disc. Wrap each disc well with plastic wrap. Refrigerate for 30 minutes or overnight. 

Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat oven to 375°F. 

On a lightly floured counter, roll a disc of dough out into a large circle about 1/8-inch thick. Cut out small circles with a cookie cutter or a shot glass and place on a rimmed baking sheet about 1 inch apart. Poke each cracker twice with a fork. 
Bake until the crackers start to brown ever so slightly around the edges, 11 to 13 minutes. Transfer the crackers to a wire rack and cool completely. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Store in an airtight container in a cool place for up to 2 weeks or freeze for up to 6 months. 

Excerpted from The Simple Bites Kitchen: Nourishing Whole Food Recipes for Every Day by Aimée Wimbush-Bourque. Copyright © 2017 by Aimée Wimbush-Bourque. Photos copyright © Tim and Angela Chin. Published by Penguin, an imprint of Penguin Canada, a division of Penguin Random House Canada Limited. Reproduced by arrangement with the Publisher. All rights reserved. 

Per serving, based on 72 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories33 
Fat2.2 g (3.5%) 
Saturated1.4 g (7%) 
Trans0.1 g 
Carbs2.6 g (0.9%) 
Fiber0.3 g (1.1%) 
Sugars0 g 
Protein0.7 g (1.5%) 
Cholesterol5.8 mg (1.9%) 
Sodium19.3 mg (0.8%) 

How To Make Meringue 
PRINT RECIPE 

Makes about 4-dozen 2-inch cookies 

What You Need 
Ingredients 
3 large egg whites 
3/4 cup granulated sugar 
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract (optional) 
Pinch salt (optional) 
Equipment 
Clean mixing bowl 
Whisk or electric mixer 
Baking sheet pan 
Parchment paper 
Piping bag 
Piping tip 
Rubber spatula 
Instructions 
Preheat your oven to 215°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside. 

Begin whisking the egg whites with the whisk attachment on medium low. Place the egg whites in the mixer bowl and begin whisking. Be sure that the mixing bowl and whisk are free from grease and that the egg whites do not have any bits of egg yolks in them. 

Add in the cream of tartar, vanilla, and salt, if using. 

Increase speed to medium and start adding sugar. After the whites begin to foam, bump up the mixer to medium speed and gradually start adding in the sugar. As the eggs whites are whisked, air is incorporated. Little air bubbles will start to form and the egg whites will foam. They will still be too liquidy to hold any shape. Once they begin to foam, begin adding in the sugar, a little bit at a time. 

 for the soft plop stage. The foam and air bubbles will start to tighten and the whites will become opaque. The soft plop stage describes eggs whites that hold onto the whisk but do not form peaks. 

Add the remaining sugar as the whites turn into soft peaks. Continue adding in the sugar until the whites begin to form soft peaks. Here, the whites will begin to hold their shape, but will eventually slump over and melt back into the bowl. 

Increase the speed to medium-high. After the whites begin to hold their shape, bump up the mixer to medium-high until they hold firm peaks. 

 for the firm peaks stage. Firm peaks are achieved when whites hold their shape. If you pull the whisk straight out of the bowl, a peak will form. At this stage, the tip of the peak will fold back over onto itself. 

Add gel food coloring or additional flavors, if using. Mix in a tiny bit of gel food coloring or other extracts until the whites hold stiff peaks. 

 for the stiff peaks stage. The stiff peaks stage is what we are trying to achieve. At this point, the peaks should stand up nice and straight. The whites will be glossy and smooth. If you rub a bit between your fingertips, it should feel silky (meaning the sugar has completely dissolved.) 

Fold in any other ingredients, if using. Gently fold in chopped nuts, chocolate, etc. with a large rubber spatula. 

Fill the piping bag with meringue. Fit a piping bag with a plain or star tip. Unfold the top of the piping bag about halfway, then use a rubber spatula to fill the bag with the meringue. Fill the bag only 1/2 to 3/4 of the way full to prevent the meringue from spilling out the top of the bag. 

Pipe out the meringue. Gently squeeze the piping bag to push out any air pockets before getting started. Pipe meringue kisses by holding the bag perpendicular to the baking sheet. Hover the top slightly over the sheet and pipe a kiss of meringue: pipe the meringue, stop pressing the bag, then pull up on the bag. (Alternatively, you can use a soup spoon to scoop large, rustic meringues.) 

Bake for 60 to 90 minutes. Depending on the size of your meringue, bake for about 60 minutes, or until the outside is crisp and the inside is dry yet chewy. They should feel light and hollow. When done, the meringue should easily peel off the parchment paper. Turn the oven off, crack the door open, and let the meringue cool completely in the oven. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Baked meringue may be stored in a covered container at room temperature for a few days. Do not refrigerate. 

Per serving, based on 4 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories159 
Fat0 g (0.1%) 
Saturated0 g (0%) 
Carbs37.8 g (12.6%) 

How To Make Frozen French Toast Sticks 
PRINT RECIPE 


Serves 6 to 8 
What You Need 
Ingredients 
1 (16-ounce) loaf unsliced soft white bread 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2 cups heavy cream 
2 large eggs 
1/2 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

Equipment 
Measuring cups and spoons 
8x8-inch baking dish 
Cutting board 
Serrated bread knife  
2 rimmed baking sheets 
Tongs 
Gallon freezer storage bag 
Wire rack 

Instructions 
Slice the bread. Use a serrated knife to cut the loaf of bread into 1 1/4-inch-thick slices. Cut each slice into 3/4-inch wide sticks. 
Heat the oven and coat 2 baking sheets with butter. Arrange 2 racks to divide the oven into thirds and heat to 375°F. Generously coat 2 rimmed baking sheets with 2 tablespoons of butter each. 
Make the French toast custard. Place the cream, eggs, sugar, cinnamon, and salt in an 8x8-inch baking dish and whisk until completely and thoroughly combined. 
Coat the bread sticks in the custard. Working with 1 bread stick at a time, dip and roll it in the custard, swipe off the excess custard back into the baking dish with two fingers, then place the coated stick on a prepared baking sheet. Repeat with the remaining bread sticks, leaving about 1/2 inch between each stick. 
Bake the French toast sticks. Bake the French toast sticks until golden-brown, using tongs to flip them halfway through, about 10 minutes total. 
Cool the French toast sticks. Immediately transfer them to a cooling rack so they remain crisp. Cool completely before freezing. 
Freeze the French toast sticks. Transfer the completely cooled French toast sticks to a gallon-sized zip-top bag, seal, and place in the freezer. It isn't important to individually freeze the sticks first, but they must be completely cool before going into the freezer. 
Reheat the French toast sticks from frozen. Once frozen, the French toast sticks can be reheated directly from the freezer. Arrange in a single layer on a baking sheet and bake in a 350°F oven or toaster oven for 5 minutes, flipping once about halfway through baking. Alternatively, you can microwave the French toast sticks for 2 minutes on high, but they will not be as crisp coming out of the microwave as they would from the oven. 
Recipe Notes 
Storage: French toast sticks can be frozen for up to 2 months. 

Per serving, based on 6 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories632 
Fat41.1 g (63.3%) 
Saturated24.2 g (120.9%) 
Trans0.3 g 
Carbs56.5 g (18.8%) 
Fiber2.2 g (8.6%) 
Sugars23.2 g 
Protein10.5 g (21%) 
Cholesterol191 mg (63.7%) 
Sodium460.3 mg (19.2%)  

How To Make a Dutch Baby Pancake 
PRINT RECIPE 

Serves 2 to 4 

What You Need 
Ingredients 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 
1/2 cup whole or 2% milk 
2 large eggs 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/2 teaspoon fine salt 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
Powdered sugar, maple syrup, and jam, for serving 
Equipment 
Blender or food processor 
Spatula 
9- or 10-inch oven-safe skillet 
Instructions 
Blend the batter: Place the flour, milk, eggs, sugar, vanilla, and salt in a blender or food processor fitted with the blade attachment. Blend for 10 seconds, scrape down the sides, and then blend for another 10 seconds. The batter will be quite loose and liquidy. 

Rest the batter: Leave the batter in the blender and set aside to rest 20 to 25 minutes. This gives the flour time to absorb the liquid. 

Heat the pan and oven: Meanwhile, place the skillet you're using on a middle rack to warm along with the oven. Heat the oven to 425°F. 

Melt the butter: When ready to make the pancake, remove the skillet from the oven using oven mitts and place it on top of the stove. Add the butter and swirl the pan to melt the butter and coat the bottom and sides of the pan. 

Add the batter: Pour the batter on top of the butter. Tilt the pan if needed so that the batter runs evenly to all sides. Place the skillet in the oven. 

Bake the Dutch baby: Bake until the Dutch baby is puffed, lightly browned across the top, and darker brown on the sides and edges, 15 to 20 minutes. 

Serve while hot: You can either serve from the pan or transfer the Dutch baby to a serving platter. Dust with powdered sugar. Cut into wedges and serve with maple syrup or jam. 

Recipe Notes 
Fruit-filled Dutch baby: Arrange fruits like blueberries, raspberries, or sliced peaches over the bottom of the skillet and then pour the batter over top. (Scattering fruit on top of the batter will keep it from rising as impressively.) 

Per serving, based on 2 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories358 
Fat17.1 g (26.3%) 
Saturated9.5 g (47.3%) 
Trans0.5 g 
Carbs39.8 g (13.3%) 
Fiber0.8 g (3.4%) 
Sugars16 g 
Protein10.8 g (21.5%) 
Cholesterol195.4 mg (65.1%) 

Recipe: French 75 Cupcakes 
PRINT RECIPE 


Makes 12 
For the cupcakes: 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1 cup granulated sugar 
2 large eggs 
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice 
1/4 cup whole milk 
1 tablespoon vanilla extract 
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest 

For the French 75 syrup:  
1 cup dry sparkling wine, Brut Champagne, or prosecco 
1 cup granulated sugar 
1/4 cup floral gin, such as Hendricks 
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice 

For the Champagne buttercream: 
2 sticks (8 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature 
4 cups powdered sugar 
1/4 cup dry sparkling wine, Brut Champagne, or prosecco 
12 lemon twists, for garnish (optional) 

Make the cupcakes: Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 325°F. Line a standard (12-well) cupcake pan with paper liners. 

Whisk the flour, baking powder, and salt together in a medium bowl: set aside. 

Place the butter and sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (Alternatively, use an electric hand mixer and large bowl.) Beat on medium speed until lightened in color. Beat in the eggs one at a time. 

Add 1/3 of the flour mixture and beat until combined. Add the lemon juice and beat again, followed by another 1/3 of the flour mixture. Add the milk and vanilla and beat again. Finish by beating in the last 1/3 of dry mixture. Fold in the lemon zest. Divide the batter between the prepared muffin cups, about 1/3 cup per well. 
Bake until the cupcakes spring back when touched, 18 to 20 minutes. While the cupcakes bake, make and cool the French 75 syrup. 

Make the syrup: Combine the sparkling wine and sugar in a small saucepan and bring to a simmer, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Remove from the heat and add the gin and lemon juice. Set aside to cool. 

Let the cupcakes cool in the pan on a wire rack for 10 minutes. Remove from the pan to the wire rack to cool completely before frosting. 

Make the frosting: Place the butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (Alternatively, use an electric hand mixer and large bowl.) Beat on medium speed until fluffy. Add the powdered sugar 1 cup at a time until fully incorporated. Add the Champagne at the very end and whip until smooth. 

Brush each cupcake with about 1 tablespoon of the syrup. Frost with the Champagne buttercream and garnish with a lemon twist, if desired. 

Recipe Notes 
Storage: Leftover cupcakes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Let come to room temperature before serving. 

Per serving, based on 12 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories590 
Fat24.1 g (37.1%) 
Saturated15 g (74.8%) 
Trans0.9 g 
Carbs86.8 g (28.9%) 
Fiber0.5 g (1.9%) 
Sugars73.3 g 
Protein3.1 g (6.2%) 
Cholesterol92.5 mg (30.8%) 
Sodium146.8 mg (6.1%) 

How To Make a Cinnamon Roll Wreath 
PRINT RECIPE 


Makes 1 wreath  
What You Need 
Ingredients 
1 recipe cinnamon rolls or other sweet rolls, such as a half-batch of our Spicy Sticky Cinnamon Rolls 
1 batch glaze or icing, such as Quick Sugar Icing 

Equipment 
Paring knife 
Baking sheet 
Parchment paper or baking mat 
Ramekin or other small heat-proof bowl 

Instructions 
Prepare the cinnamon rolls: Make your recipe for cinnamon rolls up to the step where you roll up the dough, but before you cut the cinnamon rolls. The rolled dough should be roughly 15 inches long: roll or stretch the log if needed. Transfer the log of dough to a parchment-lined baking sheet. 
Slice the log into rolls, stopping just short of slicing all the way through: Slice the rolls roughly 1-inch thick — thinner than you might normally cut the rolls. Stop short of cutting all the way through the roll, so the rolls are still joined at the bottoms. 
Shape the wreath: Starting at the top, turn the first cinnamon roll on its side. Turn the next one so that it overlaps the first roll slightly. Continue turning each roll, overlapping them, and gradually moving them into a wreath shape. When you get to the last one, join the circle by tucking the last cinnamon roll under the first. Having someone help with this step is very handy. Also, don't worry if some of the filling spills out or the rolls start to look messy: it will still bake beautifully. (Also, that's what icing is for!) 
Place a ramekin in the middle of the circle. The ramekin will help the wreath hold its shape while rising and baking. 
Let the rolls rise, then bake the cinnamon rolls. Remove the ramekin after baking. 
Drizzle the rolls with glaze or icing. Prepare the glaze and use a fork or a whisk to drizzle the cinnamon rolls all over. 
Eat right away! 
Recipe Notes 
Make-ahead cinnamon roll wreaths: Make the dough and shape the wreath the night before baking. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. Remove the rolls from the fridge while the oven heats, then bake as usual. They might need an extra minute or two of baking time. 
Freezer cinnamon roll wreaths: You can also make the wreath ahead and freeze it until you're ready to bake. Full instructions for this are here: How To Freeze Cinnamon Rolls and Bake Them Later. 

Recipe: Jammy Shortbread Thumbprints 
PRINT RECIPE 


Makes 15 to 18 cookies 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
1/4 cup granulated sugar 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
8 tablespoons (1 stick) cold unsalted butter, cubed 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/4 cup seedless jam 
Place the flour, sugar, and salt in the bowl of a food processor fitted with the blade attachment. Pulse to combine, 2 to 3 quick pulses. Add the butter and vanilla and pulse to combine. Continue pulsing until the mixture sticks together when pressed with 2 fingers, about 1 minute. Use a rubber spatula to scrape down the sides of the bowl and make sure the dough is evenly mixed. 

Remove the dough from the food processor and form into a ball. 

Using a spoon or cookie scoop, measure about 1 tablespoon of dough. Roll between the palms of your hands to form a ball and place on a baking sheet. Continue scooping and rolling, spacing the dough balls about 1 1/2 inches apart. 

Flatten each dough ball slightly with the heel of your hand. Use your thumb to press down on the center of each ball of dough to create an indentation. Fill each indentation with about 1/4 teaspoon of jam. Refrigerate for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 350°F. 

Bake for 6 minutes. Rotate the baking sheet from front to back. Continue baking until the cookies are set but still soft, 5 to 6 minutes more. 

Cool the cookies on the baking sheet for 1 to 2 minutes. Use a flat spatula to transfer the cookies to a wire rack to cool completely. 

Recipe Notes 
Make ahead: The cookie dough can be refrigerated for several days before baking. It can also be scooped out onto baking sheets, pressed with a thumbprint, frozen solid, and stored in resealable freezer bags in the freezer for several months. Frozen cookies can be filled with jam and baked straight from the freezer, but may need 1 to 2 minutes extra baking time. 
Storage: Store the cookies in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 5 days. 

Per serving, based on 16 servings. (% daily value) 
Calories106 
Fat5.8 g (9%) 
Saturated3.7 g (18.3%) 
Trans0.2 g 
Carbs12.5 g (4.2%) 
Fiber0.3 g (1.1%) 
Sugars5.6 g 
Protein0.9 g (1.8%) 


START RECIPE

LOW CARB TACO SHELLS 

5.0 (34) 
Recipe by Brian Davis 
   
“I got this from a friend when I started on the South Beach Diet, and this has ... More 
    
37 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Sooz Cooks 

Delicious! I didn't use this yet as a taco shell, instead I filled it with braunschweiger and mustard and ate it like a sandwich. Mine was cruchy yet chewy and DELICIOUS!! ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

9 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 3mins 
YIELD: 1 shell	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄3 cup cheddar cheese 
parchment paper 
DIRECTIONS 
Place 1/3 cup of cheese in thin layer on parchment paper. 
Microwave on high for one minute, or until cheese is bubbly. 
While the cheese is still flexible with parchment paper still attached, bend the cheese over a round object to give it a taco shell shape. 
The smaller in diameter the object is, the closer to a normal taco shell shape you will have. 
Let the cheese cool while around the object. 
When it has cooled, peel it from the parchment paper. 
Use this to make tacos, with normal fillings such as taco seasoned meat, lettuce, tomatoes, cheese, and sour cream, or you can also make smaller version of these shells to serve as low carb chips. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

MIKA'S BUFFALO CHICKEN ALFREDO PIZZA 

4.89 (10) 
Recipe by Mika G. 
   
“I try to make a new pizza a week and I wanted to come up with a good Buffalo ... More 
    
12 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  MichelliBelli 

I left out the cilantro because we don't really care for it too much. This pizza rocks! 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

9 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 25mins	SERVES: 3 
YIELD: 1 pizza	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 mama mary's prepared pizza crust 
6 tablespoons ragu light alfredo sauce with parmesan cheese (or eyeball it till it looks like enough to cover crust) 
8 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated 
1 (6 ounce) packagetyson oven roasted diced chicken breasts 
6 tablespoons franks redhot buffalo wing sauce 
1 (4 ounce) can mushrooms 
1 (2 1/4 ounce) can black olives, sliced 
1⁄2sweet onion, minced 
4 tablespoons cilantro, chopped 
DIRECTIONS 
In a small bowl mix chicken cubes with Buffalo sauce and set aside. 
Spread Alfredo sauce on prepared pizza crust and top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese. Top with chicken cubes (sprinkle on any sauce remaining in the bowl), onions, mushrooms, black olives and cilantro. Finish with the rest of the cheese. 
Bake at 425 for about 15 minutes or until crust is brown. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE

QUINOA CRUSTED CHICKEN FINGERS 

4.67 (4) 
Recipe by FLKeysJen 
   
“Chicken fingers are popular for kids but grown-ups will love this version adapted from The Skinny Chef, with added  from the quinoa. For preparing the quinoa, see Quinoa-Toasted and Plain Quinoa.” 
    
11 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by Lavender1638Fawn 

As we don't have 'tenders' in the UK & buying freezer bags of 'mini-fillets' is expensive, I used ordinary fillets. (The mini-fillets are not necessarily made of this 'tender' part as they are smaller, more a portion for small children or dieters - I've only ever seen 'chicken breast' in independent butchers which is where I bought mine & the 'tender' flap was attached - I had to find out what it was!). I used egg whites (and fried the yoke for a sandwich next day) but will use a non-animal product next time (might even use mock-meat too). I liked the texture of the crust with the quinoa but not the fiddly 'pressing together). I shallow-fried them but will bake them next time (using chicken) as the oven will be up for jacket potatoes. Had new potatoes, green beans/peas & salad on this occasion. 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

6 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 20mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 lbs boneless skinless chicken breasts, sliced into 3-inch long tenders (or buy chicken tenders) 
1 teaspoon salt 
2 teaspoons garlic powder 
2 teaspoons fresh ground black pepper 
2 teaspoons paprika 
2 cups cooked red quinoa or 2 cups white quinoa 
1⁄2 cup whole wheat breadcrumbs or 1⁄2 cup seasoned breadcrumbs 
2 egg whites 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
DIRECTIONS 
Spread out the quinoa on a piece of wax paper or aluminum foil. Sprinkle the breadcrumbs over the quinoa. With your fingertips, squeeze the quinoa and breadcrumbs together until the moisture of the quinoa is absorbed. 
Sprinkle the chicken with salt, garlic powder, pepper and paprika. 
Place the egg whites in a shallow bowl. Dip the chicken in the egg and then into the quinoa mixture. 
Warm the oil in a large skillet over high heat. When the oil is hot, add the chicken and reduce the heat to medium. Cook each side 5 minutes or until the crust begins to brown and the chicken is no longer translucent (turn once). 
Transfer fingers to a plate and serve immediately. 
 
 
 
 

START RECIPE

SOUTHERN SNOW CREAM 

4.95 (22) 
Recipe by Marg CaymanDesigns  
   
“The only dish my hubby ever taught me to make. :o) If I'm out of sweetened ... More 
    
25 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Treva W 

Making this snow cream is what I used as the incentive for my children to come in out of the snow! Quick, easy & yummy! Thanks! 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

11 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 8mins	SERVES: 4-6 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
fresh clean snow 
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk (fat free works great too) 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
VARIOUS TOPPINGS 
decorative candies or candy sprinkles 
DIRECTIONS 
Gather fresh, clean snow in a large bowl or place a bowl outside after it starts to snow to catch it. 
You will need the bowl to be very full. 
Mix in the sweetened condensed milk& vanilla. 
As you stir the snow will reduce by about half. 
Keep mixing, by hand, until thoroughly combined: it will take a few minutes. 
Mix in or top with desired candies, sprinkles or ice cream toppings: or enjoy plain. 
  
 
 
 
 


START RECIPE


BREAKFAST MUFFINS TO-GO 

Be the first to review this recipe 
Recipe by Dan Churchill 
As seen on Feast with Friends 
   
“Don't get bogged down by breakfast, this recipe will get your morning started ... More 
 
2 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Made this recipe? Have a way to make it better? Share it with the world! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Shrimp Scampi Dip 
(44s) 

Cajun Guacamole Shrimp Cups 
(1m) 

Rainbow Veggie Pizza 
(32s) 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 30mins 
YIELD: 6 Muffins	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
3 tablespoons olive oil 
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped 
1 red onion, finely chopped 
1 zucchini, grated and squeezed to remove excess moisture 
1⁄4 cup chives, finely chopped 
1 cup cottage cheese 
1⁄2 cup gluten-free flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 pinch salt and pepper 
12 eggs 
TOPPINGS 
1 avocado, cut into quarters and fanned 
kale chips 
2 tablespoons honey 
1⁄2lemon, juice and zest 
2 tablespoons sriracha sauce 

 SEE 3 PHOTOS 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 355 F and line a baking sheet with baking paper. In a bowl combine 2 Tbsp of Olive oil and the kale with salt and pepper, spread evenly on to tray and cook for 12-15 minutes or until crispy. Set aside to cool for 5 minutes. 
In a frypan on medium-high heat add remaining olive oil and caramelize the red onion for 4 minutes before adding garlic and cooking for a further 3 minutes, set aside.
In a bowl whisk your eggs then add in your onion, zucchini, chives, cheese, flour, baking powder and season with salt & pepper. Grease a 6 tin muffin tray and evenly distribute egg mix into each. 
Bake in the oven for 8-10 minutes or until egg is cooked. Remove and allow to cool for 5 minutes. Meanwhile in a bowl combine the siracha, honey and lemon juice. 
To finish your muffin top with the avocado drizzle with the Sriracha honey and top with a kale chip. 
  

 
 


START RECIPE

SNOW ICE CREAM 

4.31 (13) 
Recipe by Ducky 
   
“Something fun for the kids to do during the winter. Found this in MetroParent ... More 
    
12 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  cheesygiraffe 

Excellent! My boys and I had fun making this and eating it. Thanks for the easy and yummy recipe. 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

4 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 7mins 
YIELD: 1 cone	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
3 cups loose clean snow 
2 tablespoons milk 
1⁄4 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
DIRECTIONS 
Thoroughly mix all ingredients. 
Taste and add sugar and vanilla, as needed. 
  
 

 
 
 


START RECIPE

PHILLY CHEESESTEAK STUFFED PEPPERS 

4.5 (8) 
Recipe by THE BOSS 
   
“Via Pinterest” 
    
11 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Timothy M. 

when baking put a little water in the bottom of your casserole dish do not put cheese on top yet cover first with aluminum foil and cook for 45 minutes so the green peppers are not crunchy. Then you can uncover for the the last 5 minutes you can put the cheese on ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

3 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 20hrs 30mins	SERVES: 4-6 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
8 ounces thinly sliced roast beef 
8 slices provolone cheese 
2 large green bell peppers 
1 medium sweet onion 
1 (6 ounce) package baby bella mushrooms 
2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon garlic, minced 
DIRECTIONS 
Slice peppers in half lengthwise, remove ribs and seeds. 
Slice onions and mushrooms. Saute over medium heat with butter, olive oil, minced garlic and a little salt and pepper. Saute until onions and mushroom are nice and caramelized. About 25-30 minutes. 
Preheat oven to 400*. 
Slice roast beef into thin strips and add to the onion/mushroom mixture. Allow to cook 5-10 minutes. 
Line the inside of each pepper with a slice of provolone cheese. 
Fill each pepper with meat mixture until they are nearly overflowing. 
Top each pepper with another slice of provolone cheese. 
Bake for 15-20 minutes until the cheese on top is golden brown. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

CREAM CHEESE PANCAKES 

4.43 (8) 
Recipe by Kari2344 
   
“Zero carbs & gluten free! From I Breathe...I'm Hungry... blog. ... More 
    
9 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  CHEF GRPA 

Fresh Berries!! is the way to go here. I will be sharing your recipe with other ! GRPA 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

2 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 8mins	SERVES: 2 
YIELD: 4 6 inch pancakes	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 ounces cream cheese 
2 eggs 
1 g stevia powder (1 packet) 
1⁄2 teaspoon cinnamon (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
Put all ingredients in a blender or magic bullet. Blend until smooth. Let rest for 2 minutes so the bubbles can settle. Pour 1/4 of the batter into a hot pan greased with butter or pam spray. Cook for 2 minutes until golden, flip and cook 1 minute on the other side. Repeat with the rest of the batter. Serve with sugar free syrup (or any syrup of your choice) and fresh berries. A surprisingly satisfying substitute for the real thing. Tastes like skinny fried cheesecakes! Even if you aren't ing your carbs these are a delicious departure from the traditional doughy stack of pancakes. And you won't have the sleepy feeling that usually comes afterwards! 
  
 
 


START RECIPE

OFFEE-INFUSED STEAK 

5.0 (1) 
Recipe by Dan Churchill 
   
“Since coming to America I have been introduced to some pretty wicked flavors. ... More 
  
2 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  foxyladye2 

This Coffee-Infused steak is awesome. I found leaving it set marinated over night is awesome ! ! 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

4 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 20mins	SERVES: 2-4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 tablespoon coffee, ground 
1 tablespoon paprika 
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
good pinch salt 
6 tablespoons olive oil 
1 bone-in rib eye steak, 1 1/2-inches thick 
1 garlic clove 
2 tablespoons butter 
2 fresh thyme sprigs 
1 pinch pepper 
2 cups Brussels sprouts, halved 
3 sweet potatoes, peeled and cut into chips or wedges 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 390 degrees F. 
Spread out Brussel sprouts onto a baking tray, do the same for the sweet potatoes. Drizzle each with 2 Tbsp of olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Roast for 15-25 minutes or until golden (you can turn or shake ever 7 minutes to get even color). 
20 minutes prior to cooking bring your steak out of the fridge and cover all over with the coffee rub. Season both sides with salt and allow to come to room temperature. 
Add 2 Tbsp oil to a searing hot pan (preferably cast iron) and add your steak, it will be a seriously winning sizzle. Cook steak on each side for 45 seconds, add in your butter, garlic and thyme then turn every 15 seconds for a further 3-4 minutes basting the butter over the steak. 
If pan is oven proof pop in the oven, or transfer to a roasting tray, and cook for 5 minutes (Each steak is different, but for medium rare you want it to be soft but spring back once touched in the center). 
Remove from the oven and allow to rest for 6-8 minutes before slicing. 
Serve with your favorite sides (mine are Sweet Potato Fries and Roasted Balsamic. 
Brussels Sprouts). 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE


SAVOURY PROTEIN PANCAKES 

Be the first to review this recipe 
Recipe by longstaffe_richard 
   

ADD YOUR PHOTO 
“After discovering a basic protein pancake recipe on this website, I decided to experiment with some of the ingredients. Great as a snack, hot or cold! I hope you like this as a variation as much as I do!” 
Made this recipe? Have a way to make it better? Share it with the world! 
 
 
 
 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 11mins	SERVES: 2 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 cup oats 
1 cup low fat cottage cheese 
50 g feta cheese 
50 g sweet corn 
6 egg whites 
1⁄2 medium onion 
1⁄2 teaspoon black pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
Place the oats, cottage cheese, feta cheese, egg whites & black pepper in a blender and blend into a smooth batter. 
Finely chop the onion and drain the sweetcorn. 
Add the onion and sweetcorn to the batter mix and stir them inches. 
Spray a non-stick frying pan with oil, and heat the pan. 
Pour in desired amount of pancake batter into the pan and cook over a MEDIUM heat for 2-3 mins on each side. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

 BACON, TOMATO & SPINACH PIZZA 

5.0 (5) 
Recipe by JackieOhNo 
   
“This is not only economical, it is quick and tasty too!” 
    
6 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  CIndytc 

Loved it! I used fresh Spinach and thought my hubby would turn up nose when seeing green. He really liked it...Great pizza, made for PAC Spring 2012. 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

6 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 35mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 (16 ounce) package frozen pizza dough, thawed 
1 cup alfredo sauce 
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach, thawed, squeezed dry 
2 plum tomatoes, thinly sliced 
4 slices cooked bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Coat a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray. Press dough onto pan. 
Spread Alfredo sauce over dough, leaving a half-inch border. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup cheese. Top with spinach, tomatoes, and bacon: sprinkle with remaining 1/2 cup cheese. 
Bake until heated through and cheese is melted and lightly browned, 15-18 minutes. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


ENGLISH MUFFINS WITH BACON BUTTER 

5.0 (13) 
Recipe by AZPARZYCH 
   
“From Taste of Home...” 
    
14 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Sydney Mike 

Really loved the taste of this butter! I did use a quarter cup of bacon bits rather than cooking & crumbling the bacon myself, & that was just fine! Even served this with the indicated English muffins was was very nice, but ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

8 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 15mins	SERVES: 4-6 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄2 cup butter, softened 
3⁄4 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
4 pieces bacon, cooked and crumbled 
4 -6 English muffins, split 
DIRECTIONS 
In a bowl combine butter and mustard: stir in bacon. 
Toast english muffins: spread with bacon butter. 
Refrigerate any leftover butter. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


ARTICHOKE SPINACH LASAGNA 

4.87 (58) 
Recipe by TishT 
   
“A great option for vegetarian lasagna. You will greatly enjoy the mix of vegetables in ... More 
    
60 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  CMRath 

We loved this lasagna!! I made it with the red sauce and it freezes very well!! I also mixed the mozzarella with a carton of cottage cheese and 1 beaten egg, just like traditional lasagna. 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

11 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 20mins	SERVES: 6-8 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 cooking spray 
9 uncooked lasagna noodles 
1 onion, chopped 
4 garlic cloves, chopped 
1 (14 1/2 ounce) can vegetable broth 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary 
1 (14 ounce) can marinated artichoke hearts, drained and chopped 
1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach, thawed, drained and squeezed dry 
1 (28 ounce) jar pasta sauce 
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided 
1 (4 ounce) package feta cheese with garlic and herbs, crumbled 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 
Spray a 9x13 inch baking dish with cooking spray. 
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. 
Add noodles and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente: drain. 
Spray a large skillet with cooking spray and heat on medium-high. 
Saute onion and garlic for 3 minutes, or until onion is tender-crisp. 
Stir in broth and rosemary: bring to a boil. 
Stir in artichoke hearts and spinach: reduce heat, cover and simmer 5 minutes. 
Stir in pasta sauce. 
Spread 1/4 of the artichoke mixture in the bottom of the prepared baking dish: top with 3 cooked noodles. 
Sprinkle 3/4 cup mozzarella cheese over noodles. 
Repeat layers 2 more times, ending with artichoke mixture and mozzarella cheese. 
Sprinkle crumbled feta on top. 
Bake, covered, for 40 minutes. 
Uncover, and bake 15 minutes more, or until hot and bubbly. 
Let stand 10 minutes before cutting. 
To freeze: Bake, cool, wrap well, and label. freeze up to 2 months. *Note: You can assemble and freeze without cooking and cook on the day to be eaten! 
To serve, defrost overnight and then bake until warmed through, or bake from frozen for 1 hour and a half. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


BACON 'N' EGG LASAGNA 

4.93 (16) 
Recipe by Tinkerbell 
   
“Everyone i have served this to has requested the recipe. It's easy to feed to a crowd ... More 
    
18 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  DbKnadler 

This was fabulous! I did make some changes but only minor ones. 1st I changed the type of cheese because even though I love swiss, the rest of my family does not feel the same ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

11 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 20mins	SERVES: 12-15 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 lb diced bacon 
1 large onion, chopped 
1⁄3 cup flour 
1⁄2-1 teaspoon salt 
1⁄4 teaspoon pepper 
4 cups milk 
12 lasagna noodles, cooked and drained 
12 hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
2 (8 ounce) cupsshredded swiss cheese 
1⁄3 cup grated parmesan cheese 
2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley 
DIRECTIONS 
In skillet, cook bacon until crisp. 
Remove with slotted spoon to paper towels. 
Drain, reserving 1/3 cup drippings. 
In the drippings, saute onion until tender. 
Stir in flour, salt and pepper until blended. 
Gradually stir in milk. 
Bring to boil and cook and stir for 2 minutes. 
Remove from heat. 
Spread 1/2 cup sauce in greased 13x9x2 baking dish. 
Layer with four noodles, a third of the egg and bacon, cheese and sauce. 
Repeat layers twice. 
Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. 
Bake uncovered at 350 degrees for 35-40 minutes or until bubbly. 
Sprinkle with parsley. 
Let stand 15 minutes before cutting. 
*Can be made the night before and refrigerated. 
To serve, remove from refrigerator 30 minutes before baking. 
Bake as above. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

POLISH ANGEL WINGS-CHRUSCIKI 

4.8 (11) 
Recipe by Bippie 
   
“This is a classic Polish cookie that my mom and Bushia used to make at Christmas ... More 
    
17 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by The Miserable Gourm 

My Ukrainian grandmother passed when I was in my late teens. These were a holiday tradition in her home and I was too busy being a kid to ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

1 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 
YIELD: 50 cookies	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
5 tablespoons cream 
5 egg yolks 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄4 cup sugar 
2 1⁄4 cups flour, plus 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
powdered sugar 
DIRECTIONS 
Beat eggs until thick. 
Add salt slowly while stirring. 
Add sugar and vanilla, beat well. 
Add cream and flour, alternating until blended. You may need more than the flour listed above depending on how humid it is that day. 
Turn onto a floured board. 
Cover with a cloth for 10 minutes. 
Knead until dough blisters. 
Roll very thin. 
Cut into 1 inch by 4 inch rectangles. 
Cut a gash in the middle of the rectangle and pull one end through so it looks like a twist. 
Fry in 375 degree oil until golden brown. 
Drain on a rack for 3 minutes then roll into powdered sugar. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

ANYTIME CHEESY POTATOES 

4.67 (6) 
Recipe by Crafty Lady 13 
   
“Easy, cheesy potatoes to make that are a real crowd pleaser. These are made with ... More 
    
6 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  daisygrl64 

Perfect cheesy potato hash browns. I love cheese so this was right up my ally with my burger dinner for today. It sure made a lot, next time I will 1/2 the recipe and believe ... More
See all reviews  
 
 
 

1 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 55mins	SERVES: 10-12 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 (2 lb) bag frozen hash brown potatoes, thawed 
1⁄2 cup butter, melted 
1 (10 1/2 ounce) can cheddar cheese or 1 (10 1/2 ounce) can cream of chicken soup 
1 (8 ounce) sour cream 
1⁄2 cup onion, chopped 
2 cups cheddar cheese, shredded 
1 teaspoon salt 
1⁄4 teaspoon pepper 
2 cups corn flakes or 2 cups French-fried onions, crushed 
1⁄4 cup butter, melted 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 
In a large bowl, combine hash browns, 1/2 cup melted butter, cheddar cheese soup, sour cream, chopped onion, cheddar cheese, salt and pepper. Place mixture in a 3 quart casserole dish. 
Mix crushed corn flakes and 1/4 cup melted butter together and sprinkle the mixture over the top of the casserole. 
Baked covered in preheated oven for 45 minutes. 
Can be made in crockpot. Cook on high for 3 - 4 hours or on low for 7 - 8 hours. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

THE BEST EASY BEEF AND BROCCOLI STIR-FRY 

4.64 (735) 
Recipe by Chris from Kansas 
   
“I clipped this recipe from Taste of Home magazine several years ago and have ... More 
    
784 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  blackindia2 

This recipe easily rivals the beef & broccoli found at ANY local Chinese restaurant. So delicious, but I made a few minor changes: I used 2 minced garlic cloves in addition to garlic powder, minced ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

98 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 25mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
3 tablespoons cornstarch, divided 
1⁄2 cup water, plus 
2 tablespoons water, divided 
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1 lb boneless round steak or 1 lb charcoal chuck steak, cut into thin 3-inch strips 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided 
4 cups broccoli florets 
1 small onion, cut into wedges 
1⁄3 cup reduced sodium soy sauce 
2 tablespoons brown sugar 
1 teaspoon ground ginger 
hot cooked rice 
DIRECTIONS 
In a bowl, combine 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 2 tablespoons water and garlic powder until smooth. 
Add beef and toss. 
In a large skillet or wok over medium high heat, stir-fry beef in 1 tablespoon oil until beef reaches desired doneness: remove and keep warm. 
Stir-fry broccoli and onion in remaining oil for 4-5 minutes. 
Return beef to pan. 
Combine soy sauce, brown sugar, ginger and remaining cornstarch and water until smooth: add to the pan. 
Cook and stir for 2 minutes. 
Serve over rice. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


GOBI KI SABZI (DRY CAULIFLOWER CURRY) 

4.67 (3) 
Recipe by Tea Girl 
   
“I found this when looking something to do with the cauliflower. I made this ... More 
    
4 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Mia in Germany 

Great curry! I used way less chili than suggested because I can't stand it really hot, but it was still very flavourful. For the coriander leaves I used Vietnamese coriander ... More
See all reviews  
 
 
 

3 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 25mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 medium cauliflower 
2 tablespoons oil 
1⁄2 teaspoon cumin seed 
1 pinch asafoetida powder (be careful not too use too much!) 
2 medium chopped onions 
1⁄2 teaspoon ginger paste 
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic paste 
1 -2 teaspoon chili powder (depends on the heat level you like) 
1 teaspoon turmeric powder 
2 chopped tomatoes 
1 teaspoon salt 
1⁄4 cup chopped coriander leaves 
1⁄4 teaspoon garam masala 
DIRECTIONS 
Cut the cauliflower into bite-sized florets. 
Heat oil on medium high heat in a large pan or wok and add the cumin seeds. 
When they start to make a noise, add the asafoetida and stir for a few seconds. 
Add the chopped onions and saute till they turn clear. 
Put in the ginger and garlic pastes and fry till lightly golden. 
Add the chilli and turmeric powder and fry for a minute. 
Add the cauliflower, salt and tomatoes and mix well. 
Cover and cook till the cauliflower is done. 
Add the chopped coriander leaves and the garam masala and mix well. 
Taste and add salt if needed. 
Serve with freshly cooked rice. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

DELICIOUS CHEESY BAKED POTATO & BACON SOUP 

4.77 (29) 
Recipe by Kittencalrecipezazz 
   
“This is a delicious creamy thick soup. I make it quite often, it's a family favorite, I also add in some cayenne pepper, if you are not a lover of garlic you may omit--- It is so filling that I usually just serve it as a main meal with crusty bread on the side, and a salad.” 
    
29 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  pacer48 

This was an easy to make soup and delicious. We made it last winter and was perfect for dinner on a cold evening. Tasted even better when reheated the next day. Looking forward to making it again soon. 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

7 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 40mins	SERVES: 8 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2⁄3 cup butter 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh garlic 
2⁄3 cup flour 
4 cups milk 
3 cups half-and-half 
4 large baking potatoes, baked, cooled, peeled and cubed 
4 -6 green onions, chopped 
12 slices bacon, cooked and crumbled 
1 1⁄2 cups shredded cheddar cheese 
1 cup sour cream 
salt and pepper (I use seasoned salt) 
DIRECTIONS 
In a large soup pot melt butter over medium-high heat. 
Add in garlic: cook stirring for about 2 minutes. 
Add in flour then stir until smooth (about 1 minute). 
Gradually add milk and half and half stirring constantly until thickened and smooth. 
Add potatoes and onions: bring to a boil, stirring constantly. 
Reduce heat: simmer for 10 minutes. 
Add remaining ingredients: stir until cheese is melted. 
Serve immediately. 
Delicious! 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


DARK & SUMPTUOUS CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1.0 (2) 
Recipe by Nigella Lawson 
   
“My version of this vegan cake has coconut oil in the cake, and coconut butter in the ... More 
    
7 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top  by  Cookpan 

225 grams of plain flour, according to the same recipe on her site. 
See all s  
 
 
 

2 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 30mins 
YIELD: 10-12 slices	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
FOR THE ICING 
60 ml cold water
75 g coconut butter (this is not the same as oil) 
50 g soft dark sugar 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons instant espresso powder 
1 1⁄2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa 
150 g bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped (min. 70% cocoa solids, see Intro) 
FOR THE CAKE 
all-purpose flour 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons baking soda 
1⁄2 teaspoon fine sea salt 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons instant espresso powder 
75 g unsweetened cocoa 
300 g soft dark brown sugar 
375 ml hot water, from a recently boiled kettle (1 1/2 cups) 
90 ml coconut oil 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons cider vinegar or 1 1⁄2 teaspoons white wine vinegar 
1 tablespoon edible rose petal 
1 tablespoon pistachios, chopped 
DIRECTIONS 
Equipment: 8-inch round springform cake tin. 
Start with the icing, though first preheat the oven to 180°C/350°F/gas mark 4 and pop in a baking sheet at the same time. Put all of the icing ingredients except the chopped chocolate into a heavy-based saucepan and bring to the boil, making sure everything’s dissolved. Then turn off the heat – but leave the pan on the hob – then quickly add the finely chopped chocolate and swirl the pan so that it is all underwater, so to speak. Leave for a scant minute, then whisk until you have a darkly glossy icing, and leave to cool. I find this takes exactly the amount of time the cake takes to make, cook and cool. But do give the icing a stir with a spatula every now and again. 
Line the bottom of your springform cake tin (you will need a good, leakproof one as this is a very wet batter) with baking parchment. 
Put the flour, bicarb, salt and instant espresso and unsweetened cocoa in a bowl and fork to mix. 
Mix together the sugar, water, coconut oil and vinegar until the coconut oil has melted, and stir into the dry ingredients, then pour into the prepared tin and bake for 35 minutes. Though do check at the 30-minute mark to see if it is already done. 
When it's ready, the cake will be coming away from the edges of the tin and a cake tester will come out clean, apart from a few crumbs. This is a fudgy cake and you don't want to overdo it. 
Once the cake is cooked, transfer the tin to a wire rack and let the cake cool in its tin. 
Turn to your icing, and give it a good stir with a spatula to check it is at the right consistency. It needs to be runny enough to cover the cake, but thick enough to stay (mostly) on the top. So pour over the unmoulded cake, and use a spatula to ease the icing to the edges, if needed. 
If you wish to decorate, now is the time to do it. In which case, sprinkle joyously with rose petals and chopped pistachios or anything else that your heart desires: otherwise, leave it gleaming darkly and, indeed, sumptuously. Leave to stand for 30 minutes for the icing to set before slicing into the cake. 
FREEZE NOTE: The cake can be made ahead and frozen, without icing. When cool, carefully wrap cake in a double layer of clingfilm and a layer of foil. Freeze for up to 3 months. To defrost, unwrap and place on a serving plate at room temperature for 3–4 hours. 
  
 
 8
 


START RECIPE

GOOD, EASY TO MAKE HOMEMADE CHILI 

4.71 (27) 
Recipe by Noodles 
   
“This is my mother's recipe that she has perfected over the years. She has won ... More 
    
41 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  James L. 

Made this today an I must say is probably the best chilli I have ever made 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

6 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 3hrs 30mins	SERVES: 12-15 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 1⁄2-2 lbs ground beef (for vegetarians you can substitute tofu for the ground beef and it turns out good.) 
1 green pepper 
1 onion 
1 head garlic 
4 (14 1/2 ounce) cans diced tomatoes or 4 (14 1/2 ounce) cans crushed tomatoes 
2 (14 1/2 ounce) cans chili beans 
1⁄2 cup chili powder 
 teaspoon thyme 
1⁄16-1⁄8 teaspoon cayenne pepper (depending on desired spicyness. don't add much more than this it gets real hot) 
salt and pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
Brown meat (drain grease). 
Cut up vegetables. 
Put everything in a pot and boil on stove around 3 hours covered(crock pots also work, but I've found it doesn't turn out as good. It is always better heated up the next day). 
That's it. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

INSTANT POT CHICKEN MARSALA 

Be the first to review this recipe 
Recipe by ChrisWebAdmin 
   
“In their introduction to Super Fast Instant Pot Pressure Cooker Cookbook, the ... More 
Made this recipe? Have a way to make it better? Share it with the world! 
 
 
 
 

1 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 15mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, divided 
8 ounces button mushrooms, sliced (or cremini) 
2 garlic cloves, minced 
1 pinch kosher salt, to taste 
1 pinch black pepper, to taste 
1⁄2 cup marsala wine 
4 boneless chicken breasts, skinless 
1⁄2 cup chicken stock 
2 tablespoons parsley, chopped 
1 tablespoon cornstarch (mixed with 1 tablespoon water) 
DIRECTIONS 
Add the butter to the inner pot and heat on sauté. Once the butter has melted and the foam has subsided, add the mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally until browned and reduced, about five minutes. Stir in the garlic and the salt and pepper to taste. 
Add the marsala to the pot and cook, using a wooden spoon to scrape up the brown bits at the bottom of the pot. Press cancel to stop the cooking. 
Season the chicken with salt and pepper. Add the chicken in stock to the pot. 
Lock the lid. Cook on high pressure for eight minutes, then manually release the pressure. 
Transfer the chicken to a plate. Stir in the parsley and cornstarch mixture, and heat on sauté until slightly thickened, about 1 to 2 minutes. Serve sauce over the chicken. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

PINEAPPLE CASSEROLE 

4.81 (28) 
Recipe by Diana Adcock 
   
“Great as a side dish with Baked Ham and Green Bean Casserole! Really!!” 
    
27 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Lindan96 

We have always made this recipe in my family, but we mix the sugar, flour and cheese into the pineapple then put the crackers and butter on top. I think it gives it a more ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

4 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 35mins	SERVES: 8 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 (20 ounce) cans crushed pineapple 
5 tablespoons flour 
1⁄2 cup white sugar 
1 cup grated sharp cheddar cheese 
1 1⁄2 cups Ritz cracker crumbs 
1⁄2 cup butter, plus 
1 teaspoon butter 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 
Grease a 2-quart casserole dish with 1 T. butter. 
Drain pineapple. 
Place crushed pineapple evenly along the bottom of prepared casserole dish. 
Mix together the flour, sugar and cheese. 
Sprinkle evenly on top of pineapple. 
Cover with Ritz cracker crumbs. 
Melt butter and pour over the top of cracker crumbs. 
Bake for 30 minutes in preheated oven. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

PEANUT BUTTER NO BAKE COOKIES 

4.71 (113) 
Recipe by Impera_Magna 
   
“Posted in response to a request, I got this recipe from a lady at church who ... More 
    
119 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  hm1034 

If I could give these more than 5 stars I would! To a pregnant lady craving peanut butter these taste like heaven! I used 1 1/2 cups of sugar and they were PERFECT! Enjoy! :) 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

8 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 17mins 
YIELD: 48 cookies	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 cups sugar 
1⁄4 cup margarine 
1⁄2 cup milk 
1 cup peanut butter 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
3 cups rolled oats (old fashioned) 
DIRECTIONS 
In lg saucepan, mix sugar, margarine, and milk: bring to a full, rolling boil over med heat. (full, rolling boil = large bubbles rising to surface that can't be stirred down). 
Boil for one minute, stirring constantly. 
Remove from heat and stir in peanut butter and vanilla, stirring until peanut butter is melted: stir in oats. 
Working quickly, drop by spoonfuls onto waxed paper . Let cool completely. 
  

 


 



START RECIPE

CHICKEN PARMESAN 

4.87 (461) 
Recipe by MizzNezz 
   
“This is one of our I want something different tonight favorites. So VERY good!” 
    
469 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  najwa 

I made this tonight, I was in a hurry .. This is not merely VERY good, it is EXCELLENT !! Easy and quick, my husband loved it .. he said it is as good as anything you might get ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

41 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 23mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
4 boneless skinless chicken breast halves 
salt and pepper 
1⁄2 cup Italian breadcrumbs 
1 egg, beaten 
4 tablespoons butter 
2 cups spaghetti sauce 
4 slices mozzarella cheese 
1 tablespoon grated parmesan cheese 
DIRECTIONS 
Pound chicken to flatten. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Dip chicken in egg: then in bread crumbs. 
Fry in butter in hot skillet, turning and browning for 10 minutes or until chicken is done. 
Remove from skillet. 
To skillet add spaghetti sauce. 
Heat thoroughly. 
Add chicken. 
Place slices of mozzarella on top of chicken. 
Sprinkle with parmesan. 
Cover and cook until cheese is melted. 
Serve with a side of spaghetti. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

CALDO DE POLLO--MEXICAN CHICKEN STEW/SOUP 

4.5 (11) 
Recipe by .. Ameera .. 
   
“This soup is a recipe of my friend's father who passed away a few years ago. It is ... More 
    
12 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  lecole54 

This is fabulous! I'm glad I only used 5 (large) thighs, because there was almost not enough room in my 4 quart pot as it was (I did add a small zucchini, -- chopped -- since one ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

1 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 25mins	SERVES: 5 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 large onion, chopped 
2 carrots, chopped 1/2-inch thick 
3 medium potatoes, chopped bite size 
1 1⁄2 cups chopped celery, chopped 1/4 inch thick 
1 (7 3/4 ounce) canof el pato brand salsa fresco salsa (or hot tomato sauce, the yellow can not the green!) 
6 -8 pieces chicken thighs or 6 -8 pieces chicken legs, skinless, bone-in 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
6 cups water 
1 teaspoon salt 
salt and pepper 
1 -1 1⁄2 bunch cilantro, chopped 
lemon wedges or lime wedge (to garnish) 
DIRECTIONS 
in one tablespoon olive oil, heat pot on high heat and sear the chicken pieces till brown on all sides. 
remove and transfer to a plate/bowl (you will add it back). 
sautee onions with the rest of the olive oil in that same pot till translucent. 
add all the veggies. 
add chicken, water, El Pato sauce, and 1 tsp salt. 
Bring to boil, cover, lower heat to medium and cover and let cook for 25 minutes. 
lower heat to medium-low and let cook for 35 more minutes--the chicken will be falling off the bone. :D yumm! 
taste and add more salt and then pepper as needed. 
then throw in the cilantro, give it a good stir, then cover again and let it simmer for about 2 minutes. 
ladle in a bowl just like that or over Mexican rice and garnish with lemon or lime wedges so your guests can squeeze it inches. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE

MAPLE BACON COOKIE DOUGH TRUFFLES 

4.83 (6) 
Recipe by GoodnPlentiful 
   
“Cookie dough flavored with maple and candied bacon encased in dark ... More 
    
9 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  ali d 

These are delicious! I made them because my son practically drooled when I showed him the recipe, and they have become a new favorite treat in our ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

4 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 2hrs 20mins	SERVES: 42 
YIELD: 42 truffles	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄2 cup butter, softened to room temperature 
3⁄4 cup packed brown sugar 
1 (14 ounce) can condensed milk 
 tablespoon maple syrup 
2 cups flour 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄2 cup candied bacon, chopped 
1 lb dark dipping chocolate 
DIRECTIONS 
Great recipe for bacon candy! http://www.food.com/recipe/brown-sugar-bacon-candy-326739. 
Prepare a baking sheet by lining it with parchment or wax paper. 
Using a large standing mixer, cream the butter and the sugar together until light and fluffy. 
Add the condensed milk and maple syrup and beat until well-mixed, then add the flour and salt and beat on low until combined. Stir in bacon. 
Using a small scoop or a teaspoon, scoop up small round balls of the dough and place them on the prepared baking sheet. Refrigerate for one hour. Remove from fridge and roll into balls. Place back in fridge for another hour. 
Melt chocolate in double boiler, in the microwave or, as I prefer, in a Crock Pot on low. Dip balls one at a time and coat evenly. [I tried dumping a bunch in the Crock Pot at once but they get soft fast. Alternatively, you could put the balls in the freezer for a few minutes before dipping first so they get good and cold.] Remove them with a fork and tap against the side of the pot to remove any excess chocolate. Place back on baking sheet and top with a piece of candied bacon, if desired. 
Put truffles back in fridge until firm. Store in fridge. Enjoy! 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE

BEST EVER TUNA NOODLE CASSEROLE 

4.8 (165) 
Recipe by Bread n Butter 
   
“This is a recipe my entire family loves! It's requested at least once a week and ... More 
    
184 
EOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  MomOfTwo 

I have made this several times and it is easy and delicious. My picky 7 year old likes it. In response to the person who thinks this is nasty and indirectly called the ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

11 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 55mins	SERVES: 4-6 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
10 1⁄2 ounces cream of chicken soup 
1⁄2 cup mayonnaise 
1⁄4 cup milk 
1⁄2 cup diced yellow onion 
1⁄2 cup diced celery 
6 ounces albacore tuna 
6 ounces cooked egg noodles 
1⁄4 cup shredded cheddar cheese 
salt and pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
Mix the cream of chicken, mayonnaise and milk together in a large bowl. 
Add the diced celery and onion. 
Fold in the tuna, followed by the cooked egg noodles and shredded cheddar cheese. 
Salt and pepper to your taste. 
Place in a casserole dish. Cook at 375 degrees for about 40-45 minutes, just until the top starts to brown. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

HONEY GARLIC CHICKEN THIGHS 

4.38 (62) 
Recipe by Lori Mama 
   
“Very simple recipe made with pantry staples, just add the chicken.” 
    
92 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Edwin N. 

I am the LAST person that would normally submit a  on a recipe, but it was so good, I thought I would do just that. First, this is a great recipe for dads. It's easy! Prep ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

22 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 55mins	SERVES: 2-4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
8 boneless skinless, chicken thighs 
1⁄4 cup flour 
1⁄4 cup honey 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 375. 
In a bowl with tight fitting lid, put the flour. 
Add chicken, in batches, and shake to coat. 
Shake off excess flour and place pieces in a greased 8x8 baking dish,. 
making sure not to lay them flat. 
They should have the same shape as they were in the package. 
In a small bowl, mix the honey, soy sauce, garlic and seasonings. 
Pour evenly over the chicken. 
Cover and bake 30 minutes. 
Uncover and bake an additional 15 minutes, basting occasionally with the sauce. 
Serve. 
  

 

 
 


START RECIPE

BACON APPLE PIE 

5.0 (1) 
Recipe by Da Huz 
   
“...with delicious, crispy bacon lattice! Other bacon apple pie recipes call for bacon to be crumbled into the pie filling, but this one uses a bacon weave on top for an extra crispy treat. NOTE: this recipe calls for canned pie filling and frozen pie crust, but feel free to make your own. Home-made is better, but pre-made is better than nothing.” 
    
3 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by DeliciousAsItLooks 

Once again, a recipe that proves bacon goes with anything! I wasn't sure if I would like this, but it turned out great! Definitely for people who like the salty-sweet flavor combination. I made my own crust and pie filling. I also sprinkled the top of the pie with cinnamon sugar in the last 5 minutes of baking. It kind of gave the bacon a glistening appearance. Served with vanilla ice cream and bacon crumbled on top. Just remember that the bacon shrinks as it cooks, so don't trim it too much. 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

4 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 55mins	SERVES: 8 
YIELD: 1 pie	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 cups apple pie filling (approx) 
1 pie crust 
1⁄8 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1⁄4 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 
10 -12 slices bacon (uncooked) 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
Mix apple pie filling, sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and lemon juice in a bowl and pour into pie crust (in a pie pan or tin). Smooth with a spatula. 
Create bacon weave on top of pie: Lay two strips across the pie so that they intersect in the middle and are at right angles. Turn the pie so that the lower strip points toward you. Continue adding more bacon to the left and the right, creating an alternating over-under pattern with the single strip that runs side-to-side. 
At this point, there should five or six strips of bacon pointing toward the front of the pie and one strip running side-to-side which weaves over and under the other five or six strips. 
Begin laying a strip of bacon next to the on running side-to-side. Start at one end and create an over-under pattern opposite the first one by lifting up alternating strips, laying this piece down, and replacing the strips you lifted. Continue on both sides until the pie is completely covered in a bacon lattice with an alternating over-under weave. 
Trim the ends that hang over the sides. Save these trimmings for use in recipes that call for diced bacon (you can freeze them). 
Bake 45-60 minutes, or until bacon is crispy and completely cooked. You may want to bake this over a baking sheet in case apple or bacon grease ooze over the sides. 
Cool for 10 minutes before serving. Serve with caramel praline, dulce de leche, or similar ice cream. If desired, you can cooked up the bacon trimmings and garnish the ice cream with them. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

APRICOT ALMOND CAKE WITH ROSEWATER & CARDAMOM 

Be the first to review this recipe 
Recipe by Nigella Lawson 
As seen on Simply Nigella 
   
“This is my idea of a perfect cake: simple, beautiful, fragrant and beguiling. I’ve been ... More 
Made this recipe? Have a way to make it better? Share it with the world! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 30mins 
YIELD: 8-10 slices	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
150 g dried apricots 
250 ml cold water 
2 cardamom pods (cracked) 
200 g ground almonds 
50 g fine polenta (not instant) 
1 teaspoon baking powder (gluten-free if required) 
150 g caster sugar 
6 large eggs 
2 teaspoons lemon juice 
1 teaspoon rose water 
nonstick cooking spray or sunflower oil, for greasing 
TO DECORATE 
2 teaspoons rose petals or 2 teaspoons apricot  jam
1 teaspoon lemon juice 
2 1⁄2 teaspoons very finely chopped pistachios 

 SEE 2 PHOTOS 
DIRECTIONS 
Equipment: 1 x 20cm/8-inch round springform cake tin. 
Put the dried apricots into a small saucepan, cover them with the cold water, and drop in the cracked cardamom pods with their fragrant seeds. Put on the heat, then bring to the boil and let it bubble for 10 minutes – don’t stray too far away from the pan, as by the end of the 10 minutes the pan will be just about out of water and you want to make sure it doesn’t actually run dry as the apricots will absorb more water as they cool. 
Take the pan off the heat, place on a cold, heatproof surface and let the apricots cool. Preheat the oven to 180°C/gas mark 4/350ºF. Grease the sides of your springform cake tin and line the bottom with baking parchment. 
Remove 5 of the dried apricots and tear each in half, then set aside for the time being. Discard the cardamom husks, leaving the seeds in the pan.
Pour and scrape out the sticky contents of the pan into the bowl of a food processor. Add the almond meal, polenta, baking powder, superfine sugar and eggs, and give a good long blitz to combine. 
Open the top of the processor, scrape down the batter, add 2 teaspoons of lemon juice and the rosewater, and blitz again, then scrape into the prepared tin and smooth with a spatula. Arrange the apricot halves around the circumference of the tin. 
Bake for 40 minutes, though if the cake is browning up a lot before it’s actually ready, you may want to cover loosely with foil at the 30-minute mark. When it’s ready, the cake will be coming away from the edges of the tin, the top will feel firm, and a cake tester will come out with just one or two damp crumbs on it. 
Remove the cake to a wire rack. If you’re using apricot jam to decorate, you may want to warm it a little first so that it’s easier to spread: rose petal jam is so lusciously soft-set, it shouldn’t need any help. Stir a teaspoon of lemon juice into the jam and brush over the top of the cake, then sprinkle with the chopped pistachios and leave the cake to cool in its tin before unspringing and removing to a plate. 
STORE NOTE: Store in an airtight container in a cool place for 5–7 days. In hot weather (or if the central heating’s on) keep in fridge.
FREEZE NOTE: The cake can be made ahead and frozen for up to 3 months (though the nuts may soften slightly on defrosting). Wrap the fully cooled cake (still on the springform tin base) tightly in a double layer of clingfilm and a layer of foil. To defrost, unwrap and leave it (still on the tin base) on a plate at room temperature for about 4 hours. 
  

 
 
 


START RECIPE


VEGGIE PACKED CHEESY CHICKEN SALAD (REDUCED FAT) 

5.0 (3) 
Recipe by Sarah_Jayne 
   
“I came up with this when I was looking to use up a cooked chicken breast I had in ... More 
    
5 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  seesko 

This is so yummy! I cook up a bunch of chickenat the begining of the week for use in salads an such. That worked great for this recipe. I followed teh recipe almost exactly. I left out ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

5 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 35mins	SERVES: 1-2 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 cup cooked boneless skinless chicken breast, cubed 
1⁄4 cup celery, finely chopped 
1⁄4 cup carrot, shaved into ribbons 
1⁄2 cup Baby Spinach, roughly chopped 
2 1⁄2 tablespoons fat-free mayonnaise 
2 tablespoons nonfat sour cream 
1⁄8 teaspoon dried parsley 
2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 
1⁄4 cup reduced-fat sharp cheddar cheese, shredded 
DIRECTIONS 
Mix all ingredients in a bowl so that everything is coated well with the mayonnaise mixture. 
Chill in the fridge for at least 30 minutes but you could do it the night before. 
Serve. 
  

 

 
 
 


START RECIPE


SNOW ICE CREAM (1950S METHOD) 

5.0 (9) 
Recipe by Adrienne in Reister 
   
“January 28, 2000, is the day my mother crossed over. I miss her terribly but over the ... More 
    
9 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Julie 

This was a lot of fun...and easy to make. I added some coconut flavoring and cinnamon. Also used evaporated milk. I don't have memories like yours but I'm hoping my girls will now! 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

5 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 2hrs 20mins 
YIELD: 4 ice cube trays	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 quart milk 
1 egg 
1 cup sugar 
1⁄4 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
snow 
DIRECTIONS 
Make a custard out of milk, egg, sugar, salt, and vanilla. 
Remove from stove and let cool. 
Alternate between pouring snow and custard into the bowl until no more snow can be stirred into the mixture. 
Eat right away (before it melts on you!) or pour into ice cube trays. 
Lick bowl. 
Licking the bowl is a requirement. 
Nothing matters if you don't lick the bowl. 
*****Modern/Safer Method -- 1 cup milk or cream, 1/2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Mix all ingredients together. Add snow until no more can be added. Either eat immediately or freeze. This melts very quickly and is not as creamy as the old method but still good. 
  
 

 




START RECIPE

CHICKEN CACCIATORE 

5.0 (2) 
Recipe by Mainely Debbie 
   
“This recipe is from Keith Young who won the throwdown for Chicken Cacciatore ... More 
    
4 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  aimbrulee 

Thank you! This was very easy to make and delicious. I Used a package of chicken legs and thighs, and a pack of chicken breasts to save time (no cutting necessary). My kids ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

1 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 15mins	SERVES: 4-5 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
flour, to coat chicken 
2 whole chickens, each cut into 8 pieces with the breasts cut into 1/3 's 
3⁄4 cup olive oil 
6 garlic cloves, peeled and halved 
10 -12 ounces white mushrooms, sliced 
1 large onion, peeled and sliced 
2 green bell peppers, cored, seeded, and sliced into 1/2-inch strips 
2 red bell peppers, cored, seeded, and sliced into 1/2-inch strips 
1 cup dry white wine 
1 (15 1/2 ounce) can chicken broth 
1 (28 ounce) can whole tomatoes, with their juice, crushed 
1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 
kosher salt 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 
2 -3 tablespoons tomato paste 
6 leaves fresh basil, chopped 
DIRECTIONS 
Place the flour in a shallow dish and coat the chicken pieces, shaking off any excess. Heat the oil in a large saucepot over medium-high heat. 
Add the chicken in batches and fry until golden brown on all sides. When all the chicken has been cooked, set it aside. 
Add the garlic to the pan and cook until it turns golden brown. Add the mushrooms and saute for 5 to 7 minutes, until they release most of their liquid. Add the onion and bell peppers and saute until the vegetables are soft, approximately 6 minutes. 
Add the wine and let reduce for about 1 minute. Add the chicken broth, tomatoes, crushed red pepper, salt oregano and tomato paste. Return the chicken to the pot and bring the liquid to a boil, stirring constantly. Turn down the heat and simmer for 30 to 45 minutes. Stir in the fresh basil just before serving. 
This dish goes well with any pasta or rice and tastes even better the following day. 
  

 

 
 


START RECIPE

TUNA CASSEROLE 

4.68 (376) 
Recipe by Tara1183 
   
“Good and creamy, got it from my bosses wife who got it from her mother-in law.” 
    
376 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  MizzNezz 

Very good. The cream of celery soup gave a nice flavor. I added the mushrooms and 1/2 t salt. I used more cheese, 1 cup on top. We really liked this. Will make again. Thanks, Tara! 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

20 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 45mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
8 ounces egg noodles 
1 (10 1/4 ounce) can cream of celery soup 
1⁄2 cup mayonnaise 
⁄4 cup evaporated milk 
1 cup grated cheddar cheese, divided 
1⁄2 cup finely chopped celery 
1⁄2 small onion, finely chopped 
4 ounces mushrooms, drained (optional) 
1 teaspoon black pepper 
1 (7 ounce) can tuna, with juice 
DIRECTIONS 
Cook egg noodles to al dente in boiling salted water: drain well. 
Preheat oven to 325°F. 
Mix all ingredients together in a large casserole dish, reserving 1/2 cup of cheese. 
Sprinkle reserved cheese over the top. 
Bake for 30 minutes. 
Serve hot. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

DECADENT BUTTERFINGER CAKE 

5.0 (1) 
Recipe by Recipe USA 
   
“This is the best cake ever, I make it all the time. Rich and decadent.” 
  
2 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  gailanng 

This moist chocolate cake boasts an infusion of sweetened condensed milk AND salted caramel topping covered over with a layer of crispy crushed Butterfingers and a very ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

3 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 50mins	SERVES: 12 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
18 1⁄4 ounces German chocolate cake mix (box) 
1 cup water 
1⁄3 cup vegetable oil 
3 eggs 
5 butterfinger candy bars 
1 (8 ounce) jar caramel ice cream topping 
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk (Eagle Brand) 
Cool Whip 
chocolate syrup 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Bake the cake according to package directions in a 13 x 9 inch pan. When it's done, and while it's still hot, punch holes in the cake and pour the sweetened condensed milk over the top making sure some of it sinks in the holes. 
2. Do the same with the caramel ice cream topping. Sprinkle on some of the broken candy pieces. When it's cool, spread the Cool Whip topping on the top, and then sprinkle the rest of the broken bars. Then drizzle more caramel all over and then drizzle chocolate syrup all over in zig zags. 
3. Hint! Put all your candy bars in the freezer. When you're ready to use them, take them from the freezer. 
4. Leave the wrappers on and take a mallet or a hammer and smash them inside the wrappers. Keep cool until you need them. 
5. Enjoy! 
6. The cook and prep times are approximate and will vary with the size cake pan you use, as well as your oven. 
  

 

 
 


START RECIPE

BREAKFAST BARS 2.0 

Be the first to review this recipe 
Recipe by Nigella Lawson 
As seen on Simply Nigella 
   
“I have a breakfast bar recipe in an earlier book, but this is the new, improved version: ... More 
Made this recipe? Have a way to make it better? Share it with the world! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 
YIELD: 16 bars	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
250 g medjool dates 
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
325 ml cold water 
75 g goji berries 
75 g pumpkin seeds 
150 g brown flax seeds 
50 g cocoa nibs 
25 g chia seeds 
25 g corn flakes (gluten-free if required) 
100 g organic porridge oats (not instant) 

 SEE 2 PHOTOS 
DIRECTIONS 
Equipment: 8-inch square baking tin. 
Preheat the oven to 180ºC/gas mark 4 or 350ºF, and line the bottom and sides of your tin with baking parchment. Pit the dates and tear them with your fingers into a small saucepan, add the cinnamon, cover with the water, bring to the boil and let bubble for 5 minutes. Turn off the heat, and beat with a fork until you have a rough purée. 
Put all the remaining ingredients into a large bowl, add the date mixture and mix until everything is combined. I wear a pair of disposable vinyl gloves for this. 
Squodge into your prepared tin and bake in the oven for 30 minutes, until firm and set, and golden on top and darker around the edges. Leave to cool in the tin before cutting into pieces. 
STORE NOTE: Store in an airtight container in a cool place or in fridge for up to 1 week. 
FREEZE NOTE: Wrap bars individually in clingfilm or foil and put in a resealable bag, or stack bars in an airtight container with baking parchment in between the layers. Freeze for up to 2 months. To defrost, put bars on a wire rack and leave at room temperature for about 2 hours. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

CHOCOLATE ICEBOX PIE 

5.0 (3) 
Recipe by Lvs2Cook 
   
“This is so good! This pie needs to chill about 8 hours before serving so make the day ... More 
    
3 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  transworldco 

I cut this recipe out of the Southern Living magazine, but just got around to trying it. I made a homemade graham cracker crust in the microwave (I love this method) You ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

2 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 38mins	SERVES: 8 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2⁄3 cup milk 
3⁄4 cup semisweet chocolate morsel 
1⁄4 cup cold water 
2 tablespoons cornstarch 
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 
3 large eggs, beaten 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
3 tablespoons butter 
1 (6 ounce) ready-made chocolate crumb crusts 
1 cup whipping cream 
1⁄4 cup sugar 
1⁄2 cup chopped pecans, toasted 
1 (1 5/8 ounce) milk chocolate candy bars, chopped 
DIRECTIONS 
Heat milk in a 3 quart saucepan over medium heat until it begins to bubble around the edges (DO NOT BOIL). 
Remove from heat and whisk in the chocolate morsels until melted. 
Cool slightly. 
tir together cold water and cornstarch until dissolved. 
Whisk cornstarch mixture, sweetened condensed milk, eggs, and vanilla into chocolate mixture. Bring to a boil over medium heat, whisking constantly. Boil 1 minute or until mixture thickens and is smooth. Be careful not to overcook. 
Remove from heat and whisk in butter. 
Spoon mixture into pie crust. 
Cover and chill at least 8 hours. 
Beat whipping cream at high speed with a mixer until foamy. Gradually add sugar and beat until soft peaks form. 
Spread whipped cream evenly over pie filling. 
Sprinkle with pecans and candy bar pieces. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

WHITE CHICKEN CHILI 

4.79 (200) 
Recipe by Renita 
   
“Easy, delicious chili with a bit of a spicy bite. A friend served this to me one day and I ... More 
    
205 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Bridget Leigh 

Update: I made this today in the crock pot and it was even better. I threw whole boneless, skinless chicken breasts in the bottom of the crock pot, then dumped the rest of the ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

13 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 50mins	SERVES: 5 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 lb boneless skinless chicken breast, cut into 1/2 inch cubes 
1 medium onion 
1 1⁄2 teaspoons garlic powder 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
2 (15 1/2 ounce) cans great northern beans, rinsed and drained 
1 (14 1/2 ounce) can chicken broth 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon oregano 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper 
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1 cup sour cream 
1⁄2 cup whipping cream 
2 (4 ounce) cans diced green chilies 
DIRECTIONS 
In large saucepan, saute chicken, onion and garlic poweder in oil til chicken is no longer pink. 
Add beans, chilies and seasonings and chicken broth. 
Bring to a boil. 
Reduce heat and simmer (uncovered) for 30 minutes. 
Remove from heat, stir in sour cream and whipping cream. 
Serve immediately. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE


BACON RANCH DIP 

4.67 (12) 
Recipe by MsSally 
   
“Easy dip for chips or as a spread for crackers.” 
    
12 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  rickoholic83 

This dip is fantastic! I made this to take to a potluck but couldn't help myself from trying it after a few hours in the fridge. The salt from the bacon bits paired with the creaminess of the sour cream and cheddar is a ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

4 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 5mins	SERVES: 20 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 (1 ounce) package ranch dressing mix 
16 ounces sour cream 
1⁄2 cup bacon bits (i prefer the hormel brand) 
1 cup cheddar cheese (shredded) 
DIRECTIONS 
Mix all ingredients and enjoy. 
Note as usual with dips this is better made ahead so the flavors can marry. 
  

 

 
 


START RECIPE

MOUNTAIN DEW JELLY 

4.72 (21) 
Recipe by NovaLee 
   
“” 
    
23 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  948605 

I love this recipe! I made it w/a soft drink that's called Cherry Lemon Sundrop...think Mount Dew w/cherry. I entered it for 2 years straight in our county fair and both times got first place. When I used Mountain Dew, I used green food ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

8 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 20mins 
YIELD: 4 jars	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
3 1⁄4 cups Mountain Dew soda 
2 tablespoons lemon juice 
4 1⁄2 cups sugar 
1 package sure jell pectin 
DIRECTIONS 
Pour mountian dew and lemon juice into a large pot. 
Bring to boil. 
Boil 3 minutes. 
Cool slightly. 
Then follow the sure jell directions. 
Process for 10 minutes in a boiling water bath. 
you can use more mountain dew and reduce it to 3-1/4 c. 
for a more concentrated flavor. 
  

 


START RECIPE


SNOW CREAM IN A BLENDER 

4.78 (28) 
Recipe by MorganLee 
   
“Ever had real snow cream after fresh snowstorm? This is very popular in the southern ... More 
    
28 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  KitchenManiac 

YUMMY YUMMY YUMMY!!! This was such a fantastic drink!! I did end up using chocolate full cream milk instead of normal milk. And I dropped a whole strawberry at the top of ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

2 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 2mins	SERVES: 3-4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 cups milk 
1⁄2-3⁄4 cup sugar (depending on how sweet you like it) 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
full tray ice cube 
DIRECTIONS 
Pour milk into blender and add all remaining ingredients. 
Blend on high until all ice chunks are gone. 
Pour into glasses and enjoy! 
*Can also use heavy cream, evaporated milk, or half & half for creamier taste (but higher fat content). 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE


EASY STIR FRY SAUCE 

4.56 (113) 
Recipe by Winnipeg Mel 
   
“A basic stir fry sauce that I've been using for years. I got the recipe from my mother, ... More 
    
117 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  mosma 

This was very good, but I thought it was a bit too sweet. I would definitely lessen the brown sugar. I added crushed red pepper and black pepper, and served it with ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

7 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 5mins 
YIELD: 3 cups	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 -3 tablespoons cornstarch 
1⁄4 cup brown sugar, packed 
1⁄4 teaspoon ground ginger (or a bit of fresh minced ginger) 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1⁄2 cup soy sauce or 1⁄2 cup tamari soy sauce 
1⁄4 cup cider vinegar or 1⁄4 cup white vinegar 
1⁄2 cup water 
1 1⁄2 cups vegetable broth or 1 1⁄2 cups beef broth or 1 1⁄2 cups chicken broth (I use chicken broth if my stir fry will have chicken, etc.) 
DIRECTIONS 
Combine all ingredients in a large glass jar with a lid. 
Screw lid on. 
Shake well. 
Can store in fridge up to 2 weeks. 
Shake well before using. 
To use sauce: stir fry your vegetables and meat as desired, add appropriate amount of sauce, bring to a boil, boil for 1 minute or until slightly thickened. 
Serve. 
  

 


START RECIPE


LOS BARRIOS CALDO DE RES (BEEF SOUP) 

4.56 (10) 
Recipe by Miss Annie 
   
“From the Los Barrios Family Cookbook. This makes 6 main course bowls of soup. I ... More 
    
11 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Gabby B 

Great recipe! Quite accurate, while most Mexican people don't add tomatoes to their caldo, there are some people out there who do. It really depends what region ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

1 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 40mins	SERVES: 6 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
5 lbs stew beef bones 
salt, to taste 
garlic powder, to taste 
4 ears corn, husked an cut in half 
6 celery ribs, cut into 1/2-inch pieces 
3 carrots, peeled and cut into 1-inch pieces 
4 potatoes, peeled and cut into 2-inch chunks 
3 tomatoes, cut into wedges 
3 zucchini, cut into 2-inch chunks 
2 onions, cut into 6 wedges 
1⁄2 head cabbage, cut into quarters 
1 green bell pepper, sliced 
6 cups rice, Spanish rice, cooked and hot 
1 lemon, cut into 6 wedges 
DIRECTIONS 
Place bones in large stockpot, add water to cover by 6 inches. 
Bring to boil, reduce heat and boil gently for 45 minutes. 
Stir in salt, garlic powder. Then add corn, celery and carrots. Boil another 15 minutes. 
Add potatoes, tomatoes, zucchini, onion, cabbage, and bell pepper. Boil for 15 minutes longer. 
Ladle soup into 6 large bowls. 
Add 1 cup rice to each bowl. 
Squeeze juice from a lomon wedge over each bowl. 
Serve immediately as a main course. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE


SIMPLE BAKED CHICKEN DRUMSTICKS 

4.71 (113) 
Recipe by ND_Dawn 
   
“I wanted a basic way to cook drumsticks since they are cheaper than the ... More 
    
152 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by Papa D 1946-2012 

These were absolutely DELICIOUS! I covered the legs with olive oil and seasoned well with Cavender's All Purpose Greek Seasoning and let ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 
 
20
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 5mins	SERVES: 2-3 
YIELD: 3 drumsticks	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
9 -12 chicken drumsticks 
garlic powder 
pepper 
salt 
olive oil 
rosemary (optional) 
parsley 
DIRECTIONS 
Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9x13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 
Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 
Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. Sprinkle lightly with salt. Add rosemary to the chicken, if desired. 
Bake at 375° F for half an hour. Turn drumsticks over and add more garlic powder, pepper and salt (same as before). Top with the parsley. 
Bake another half an hour, or until cooked until 160°F. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


BUFFALO CHICKEN CHEESE BALLS WITH BLUE CHEESE DIP 

5.0 (13) 
Recipe by Scoutie 
   
“These are simple, delicious and pefect for Super Bowl Sunday or any party! My family ... More 
    
18 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Devin71 

I have made these twice. I added cream cheese on the second batch.This made them much better. 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

5 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 30mins 
YIELD: 15-20 balls	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 store-bought rotisserie-cooked chicken 
1⁄4 cup hot sauce (recommended Frank's Red Hot) 
1 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1 3⁄4 cups sharp cheddar cheese, grated 
1⁄2 cup thinly sliced green onion, green tops as w ell
1 cup all-purpose flour 
3 eggs, lightly beaten 
2 cups panko breadcrumbs 
vegetable oil, for frying 
1 1⁄2 cups mayonnaise 
1⁄2 cup packed blue cheese, crumbled 
1⁄2 teaspoon hot sauce 
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄2lemon, juiced 
1 teaspoon minced garlic 
DIRECTIONS 
Have oil heated to 350 degrees F. 
Pick the meat from the chicken and discard the skin, then dice.Place the chicken in a large bowl and add the hot sauce, pepper, cheese, and green onions, and toss to combine. Roll the chicken into 2-ounce balls, about the size of a golf ball. 
Place the flour, eggs, and Panko crumbs in 3 separate bowls. Roll each ball in the flour, then the egg and then the bread crumbs. Set aside.
When the oil is hot fry the chicken balls in batches. Cook for about 2 minutes per batch. Drain on paper towels. 
To make the dip, combine all ingredients in a large bowl and adjust the seasoning if necessary. Serve the chicken alongside the dipping sauce. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE


VINEGAR & SALT FRENCH FRIES 

4.8 (5) 
Recipe by lets.eat 
   
“This recipe remind me of fair fries. I fill a tiny spray bottle with vinegar so we can ... More 
    
5 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  sloe cooker 

I loved this recipe. I like tart and tangy foods and thought this would be more tangy. This was not strong tasting at all, just simple goodness. Used the oven method to cook. Baked ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

2 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 50mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 1⁄4 lbs baking potatoes, peeled (about 2) 
3 cups water 
2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar, plus 
2 teaspoons distilled white vinegar, divided 
1 tablespoon canola oil 
salt 
DIRECTIONS 
Cut potatoes lengthwise into 1/4 inch slices, then into matchsticks. 
Combine water and 2 tablespoons vinegar in a large bowl. 
Completely submerge potatoes in vinegar mixture. 
Soak for 30 minutes. 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees (Or deep fry). 
Drain potatoes on paper towels. 
Transfer to a clean dry bowl. 
Toss with canola oil. 
Arrange potatoes on heavy gauge nonstick baking sheet in single layer. 
Bake for 20 minutes, or until potatoes just begin to brown. 
Turn and bake for 10 minutes, or until browned and crisp. 
Toss with 2 teaspoons vinegar and salt to taste. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE

EASY GARLIC CHICKEN 

3.96 (180) 
Recipe by ElleFirebrand 
   
“A quick, easy chicken recipe for days when you don't want to spend time in the ... More 
    
183 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  falcons84 

The basics were there for this recipe, and with the help of some of the comments, we had a lovely, easy weekday dinner! Used 3 tbsp brown sugar instead of 4, browned ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

30 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 30mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
4 boneless skinless chicken breasts 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
4 tablespoons brown sugar 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
additional herbs and spices, as desired 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 450°F Line a baking dish or cookie sheet with aluminum foil and lightly coat with cooking spray or lightly brush with oil. 
In small sauté pan, sauté garlic with the oil until tender. 
Remove from heat and stir in brown sugar. Add additional herbs and spices as desired. 
Season chicken with salt and pepper. .Place breasts in a prepared baking dish and cover with the garlic and brown sugar mixture. 
Bake uncovered for 15-30 minutes, or until juices run clear. Cooking time will depend on the size and thickness of your chicken. 
  

 

 
 
 
Shrimp Scampi Dip 
(44s) 
 
Cajun Guacamole Shrimp Cups 
(1m) 
 
 
 START RECIPE

 CROCK POT CREAM CHEESE RANCH CHICKEN 

4.47 (79) 
Recipe by Stacky5 
   
“This is a recipe that was derived from Miss Annie's Crock Pot Cream Cheese ... More 
    
80 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  karen k. 

WOW...this is REALLY good! So i didn't have chicken that was thawed and i actually made it with FROZEN chicken and it STILL turned out beautifully. I put 4 frozen/skinless ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

9 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 6hrs 15mins	SERVES: 4-6 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
4 boneless skinless chicken breasts 
2 tablespoons butter, melted 
1 (10 3/4 ounce) can cream of chicken soup 
8 ounces cream cheese, cubed 
1⁄2 cup chicken broth 
1 (1 ounce) package hidden valley ranch dressing mix 
1⁄4 teaspoon minced garlic 
1 dash paprika 
1⁄8 teaspoon dried oregano 
1⁄4 teaspoon dried parsley flakes 
DIRECTIONS 
Wash and dry chicken breasts and place them evenly in crock pot. Sprinkle with paprika. 
Sprinkle pkg. of Hidden Valley Ranch salad dressing mix over chicken. 
Drizzle chicken breasts with 1 tablespoons melted butter. 
Cover and cook on Low for 4 hours. 
Melt remaining 1 tablespoon butter in a medium saucepan along with minced garlic and saute slightly. 
Add cream of chicken soup, the 8 oz. of cream cheese cubes, 1/2 cup chicken broth, dried Oregano and dried Parsley flakes. Stir on medium heat until smooth. 
Add mixture to crock pot, cover again and continue to cook on low for 1 1/2 hours to 2 hours. 
Serve over buttered egg noddles. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


CHEESY TACO POCKETS 

4.23 (13) 
Recipe by Mamas Kitchen Hope 
   
“Tasty little pockets of cheesy taco flavored ground meat. Perfect for appetizers, ... More 
    
13 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  OutOfThyme 

I think the name is a little deceiving here, as they didn't taste like tacos, but they were still good. Next time I will leave out the oregano and cinnamon, and add in some taco ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

9 
IEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 45mins	SERVES: 16-32 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 (17 1/3 ounce) packages puff pastry sheets, 2 sheets per package 
1 egg 
1⁄2 tablespoon water 
1 1⁄2 lbs ground beef 
1⁄2 cup green pepper, chopped 
1⁄2 cup white onion, chopped 
1 garlic clove, minced 
1 medium tomatoes, seeded and chopped 
1⁄2 cup catsup 
1⁄4 cup fresh cilantro or 1⁄4 cup parsley, chopped 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
2 teaspoons chili powder 
1 teaspoon oregano 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 1⁄2 cups monterey jack cheese, shredded or 1 1⁄2 cups monterey jack pepper cheese, shredded for a spicier result or 1 1⁄2 cups colby cheese, shredded, any similar cheese will work 
DIRECTIONS 
Remove pastry from freezer and allow to thaw at room temperature for about 30- 40 minutes or until they are easy to handle. 
Meanwhile, add the beef, onion and green pepper to a large skillet and cook until beef is browned and vegetables begin to soften. Stir occasionally to break meat up and prevent scorching. 
Add garlic and cook for one more minute, stirring constantly. 
Drain all the grease from the pan and return to the heat. 
Add tomato, catsup, cilantro or parsley, cumin, chili powder, oregano and cinnamon. Reduce heat to low and allow to simmer for about 10 minutes. You want a pretty dry mixture so your filling stays put in the pastry. 
Remove from the heat. Stir in the cheese and set aside until cool enough to handle. 
Work with one pastry sheet at a time, keeping the others covered so they do not dry out. 
On a lightly floured surface roll out a pastry sheet to a rectangle about 16 x 12 inches and then cut into 8 even pieces. 
Put a heaping teaspoonful of meat mixture in the center of the pastry. (I always seem to over fill them no matter how carefully I measure so you may want to start with less than you think you should use and add a little more if needed. Voice of experience! ). 
Mix the egg and water together and brush pastry edges with it. 
Grab one corner of a pastry and fold over to form a triangle. Press edges with a fork to seal and brush the tops with more egg mixture. 
Repeat until all ingredients are used. 
Place the pastries on a sprayed or greased baking sheet. You could also use parchment paper or a silicone liner. 
Bake at 375 degrees for about 15-17 minutes or until golden brown. 
OAMC-To Freeze and Bake Later: Place pockets on parchment paper or wax paper and freeze until firm. They can then be transferred to a zip top bag and stored in the freezer. Remove desired amount from freezer when ready to use and bake as directed, increasing time to 17-20 minutes or until golden brown. 
Great served with sour cream, catsup or your favorite dip. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


CITRUS POACHED SALMON 

5.0 (5) 
Recipe by Rita1652 
   
“A Light dish served over White Jasmin Rice. This is also good served cold. Left overs ... More 
    
6 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Michelle Bensky 

This was really wonderful. Someone who almost never cooks ed for the recipe after eating this. I also garnished this with round slices of the citrus that was used for zest ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

7 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 30mins	SERVES: 4-5 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 1⁄2 lbs salmon fillets 
1 quart chicken stock 
1⁄2 quart orange juice 
1⁄2 quart grapefruit juice 
2 cups white wine 
1 small yellow onion, chopped 
1 small carrot, chopped 
2 kaffir lime leaves, sliced 
2 tablespoons minced garlic 
1 -2 cup chopped lemongrass (tender white part only) 
1 teaspoon salt or 1 tablespoon Thai fish sauce 
1 teaspoon white pepper 
1 oranges, zest of or 1 grapefruits or 1 lemons or 1 lime, for garnish 
DIRECTIONS 
In a large pot, combine chicken stock, orange juice, grapefruit juice, white wine, onion, carrots, kaffir lime leaves, garlic and lemon grass. 
Season with salt and white pepper. 
Bring to a boil for 5-10 minutes.This is to reduce so the liquid has more flavor and to soften the veggies. 
Reduce heat to a very low simmer. 
Place the salmon (skin side down) in the poaching liquid until flaky and tender, about 5-10 minutes. 
Serve as is garnished with fruit. Or chill place on a bed of greens garnished with fruit slices. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE


PERFECT BASIC WHITE RICE 

4.83 (130) 
Recipe by Mamas Kitchen Hope 
   
“You do not need to be afraid of cooking rice again! lol Real rice is so much better for ... More 
    
137 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Jug OMud 

I've banished the boil in the bag variety and retired my rice cooker, cos I've found Mama's method, tried & true! I've been making rice this way for so long, my apologies for ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

20 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 20mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 cup long grain rice 
2 cups water 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon butter (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
In a saucepan with a good fitting lid bring water, salt and butter if desired to a boil. 
Add rice and stir. 
Cover and reduce heat to medium low. You will know that your temperature is correct if a little steam is visible leaking from the lid. A lot of steam means your heat is too high. 
Cook for 20 minutes. 
DO NOT LIFT LID! 
The steam that is trapped inside the pan is what allows the rice to cook properly. 
Remove from heat and fluff with fork. 
Serve! 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE


CALDO DE POLLO (MEXICAN CHICKEN SOUP) 

5.0 (4) 
Recipe by Brisket in Roses 
   

ADD YOUR PHOTO 
“I doubt this can be considered a stew because it is not thick, but it is chunky with ... More 
    
4 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  leelew03 

I doubled the recipe to eat this every day...it's so ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 10mins	SERVES: 6 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 lbs chicken, bone in, I usually use drumsticks 
1 large onion, cut in eights 
1 small green cabbage, cut in eights 
3 garlic cloves, minced 
2 chayotes, peeled and cut in chunks 
16 ounces frozen corn on the cob, nibblers (6 ct) 
2 medium carrots, cut in chunks 
3 large potatoes, cut in chunks 
3 celery ribs, cut in chunks 
2 bay leaves 
2 -3 quarts water (must cover the chicken) 
salt and pepper 
cilantro, roughly chopped for garnish 
lime, cut into wedges 
onion, diced for garnish 
DIRECTIONS 
Rinse and dry chicken and place in stockpot. Add the corn on the cob nibblers with the chicken. Cover with water and season with salt. 
Add onion, bay leaves and garlic and let simmer for about 20 minutes (longer if using bigger pieces of chicken). 
Add the carrots, celery ribs, chayote, and potatoes and cook until vegetables are near tender. 
Add the cabbage, add more salt if needed and add pepper. Let simmer for about 5-10 minutes until cabbage is tender. 
Serve and garnish with cilantro, diced onion, and lime wedges. Adjust to taste with lime wedges. 
  
 
 
ATCH MORE 
 


START RECIPE


OLD-FASHIONED PAN-FRIED PORK CHOPS 
4.82 (24) 
Recipe by Alan in SW Florida 
   
“I thought it was time to revisit on old-fashioned cooking method: Pan Frying. Is it ... More 
    
31 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  GoBugsy 

A must try!!! I mixed the seasonings in with the flour, adding Tony Chachere's and replacing a little red pepper with ground black pepper. DELISH! 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

6 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 35mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 teaspoon garlic powder 
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika 
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper 
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper (ground red pepper) 
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour 
4 bone-in-rib pork chops (chops between 3/4 and 1 inch are best for this recipe) or 4 center-cut pork chops, about 3/4-inch thick (chops between 3/4 and 1 inch are best for this recipe) 
3 slices bacon, chopped 
1⁄2 cup vegetable oil 
DIRECTIONS 
Combine the garlic powder, paprika, salt, pepper, and cayenne in a bowl. Place the flour in a shallow dish. Pat the chops dry with paper towels. Cut 2 slits about 2 inches apart through the fat on the edges of each chop (Since pork chops have a tendency to curl when cooked at high heat, cutting the slits will prevent this from happening). Season both sides of the chops with the spice mixture, then dredge the chops lightly in the flour (do NOT discard the flour). Transfer to a plate and let rest for 10 minutes. 
Meanwhile, cook the chopped bacon in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat until the fat renders and the bacon is crisp, about 8 minutes. using a slotted spoon, transfer the bacon to a paper towel-lined plate and reserve for another use. (if having baked potatoes with the pork chops, serve with sour cream, chopped chives, and sprinkle on the cooked, chopped bacon -- YUM!) Do NOT wipe out the pan! 
Add the oil to the fat in the pan and heat over medium-high heat until just smoking. Return the chops to the flour dish and turn to coat. Cook the chops until well browned, 3 to 4 minutes per side. 
Serve and enjoy! 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


AUTHENTIC NO REFRIGERATION BAKERY FROSTING/ICING 

4.87 (51) 
Recipe by Kittencalrecipezazz 
   
“A frosting just like the bakeries use on their cakes and there is no refrigeration ... More 
    
56 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  lilsweetie 

I have made this 2 times in the past week. it is my new go-to frosting recipe. I use it for everything from fancy retirement party cakes to simple cupcakes. ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

19 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 10mins 
YIELD: 8 cups	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 cups shortening 
1⁄2 cup non-dairy powdered coffee creamer (such as Coffee Mate) 
1⁄2 teaspoon almond extract (can use more to taste) 
1⁄4-1⁄2 teaspoon vanilla 
1 (32 ounce) package confectioners' sugar, sifted 
1⁄2-3⁄4 cup water 
food coloring, use color of choice 
DIRECTIONS 
In a large mixing bowl beat the shortening creamer and extracts. 
Gradually beat in the confectioners sugar. 
Add in enough water (starting with almost 1/2 cup) until frosting reaches desired consistency. 
Add in food coloring until the desired shade is achieved. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

LOBSTER NEWBURG 

4.71 (7) 
Recipe by mielhollinger 
   
“” 
    
8 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Sue Humphrey 

Very easy to make. I used loganstinos instead of full lobsters. I am planning on using this recipe again. Also, I used full whipping cream and more pepper. Can't tell you about leftovers, there weren't any leftover. 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

1 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 20mins	SERVES: 4 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 teaspoons butter 
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 
1⁄4 teaspoon salt 
1 1⁄2 cups milk 
2 beaten egg yolks 
8 ounces cubed, cooked lobsters 
1 tablespoon dry sherry 
1⁄8 teaspoon white pepper or 1⁄8 teaspoon black pepper 
1 dash ground red pepper 
2 English muffins, split and toasted 
snipped fresh chives (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
In a medium saucepan, melt butter. 
Stir in flour and salt. 
Add the milk all at once. 
Cook and stir until thickened and bubbly. 
Cook and stir 1 more minute. 
Stir about half the hot mixture into the beaten egg yolks. 
Return all to saucepan. 
Cook and stir until mixture is thickened and bubbly. 
Stir in lobster, dry sherry, white or black pepper, and ground red pepper. 
Heat through. 
Serve over English muffin halves. 
If desired, garnish with snipped chives. 
  
 
 
 
 
ALL 
REVIEWS 
S 


START RECIPE


MILKY WAY FUDGE 

5.0 (4) 
Recipe by Coffee lover 
   
“I found thie recipe in a cookbook that I got for the Cook Book Swap 09. I ... More 
    
4 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  ImPat 

I made this for the DS to take to his adult music recreation group and they loved it. Our condensed milk comes in 395g can (about 14 ounces) so up the weight of everything ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

1 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 5mins	SERVES: 12 
YIELD: 24 fudge pieces	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
3 regular-size Milky Way bars 
1 (12 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 
12 ounces milk chocolate chips 
nuts (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
Melt candy bars and milk in microwave for 3 to 3 1/2 minutes. 
Stir in chocolate chips and nuts. 
Pour into buttered 8-inch square pan. 
Cools quickly. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE

OLIVE GARDEN GARLIC ALFREDO SAUCE 

4.87 (223) 
Recipe by Diana Adcock 
   
“This recipe is posted by request and was found on the net-no name attached.” 
    
216 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Cullinaryjudge 

Next time, I would add more cream cheese, as the sauce was a little too thin. Otherwise, very good and easy to make. Added grilled chicken strips to the pasta, then slathered on ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

7 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 28mins 
YIELD: 1 pint	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄2 cup butter 
2 tablespoons cream cheese 
1 pint heavy cream 
1 -2 teaspoon garlic powder (start with 1 and taste) 
salt & freshly ground black pepper 
2⁄3 cup fresh grated parmesan cheese or 2⁄3 cup romano cheese 
DIRECTIONS 
In a medium to large saucepan melt the butter over medium heat. 
Add the cream cheese and whisk to smooth and melted. 
Whisk in the heavy cream. 
Season with the garlic powder, salt and pepper. 
Bring to a good simmer and whisk frequently until sauce thickens, around 25 minutes. 
Remove from heat and stir in cheese. 
Taste and adjust seasoning's. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE


MAN DIP 

4.74 (37) 
Recipe by ratherbeswimmin 
   
“From my hometown community cookbook: given to me by my best friend. ... More 
    
40 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  gretchengr 

This cheese dip is to die for. WOW!! I made this for Super Bowl Sunday and we keep running back to the crockpot during commercial breaks to fill up our bowls. I also ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

5 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 50mins	SERVES: 10 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 lb bulk sausage 
1 lb lean ground beef 
1 large onion, chopped 
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic salt (I substitute 3-4 garlic cloves, cook in the skillet with the meats and onion) 
pepper 
2 lbs shredded Velveeta cheese 
2 (10 1/2 ounce) cans cream of mushroom soup 
1 -2 jalapeno pepper, chopped (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
In a large skillet over medium heat, cook sausage, ground beef, and onion (and garlic) until meats are browned and onion is tender: drain off fat. 
Add remaining ingredients: cook over medium heat until cheese is melted and mixture is heated through. 
Serve warm with corn or tortilla chips. 
**I usually pour this into a crockpot, on LOW, to keep this warm when serving to guests. 
  
 
 
 


START RECIPE


PIZZADILLA -- WEIGHT ERS 

5.0 (1) 
Recipe by Joane1464 
   

ADD YOUR PHOTO 
“This is a quick, healthy alternitive to eating a pizza! I adapted it from a similar ... More 
Top Review by  bmcnichol 

We had these for lunch and everyone loved them. I let my boys make their own which they enjoyed. Nice quick ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 
 SAVE RECIPE  
READY IN: 15mins	SERVES: 1 
YIELD: 1 pizzadilla	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 whole wheat tortilla 
pizza sauce 
2⁄3 cup fat free mozzarella cheese or 2⁄3 cup part-skim mozzarella cheese 
6 slices turkey pepperoni 
vegetables (I like to use peppers and onions) 
DIRECTIONS 
Place tortilla on skillet and turn heat between low and medium. 
spread out sauce over tortilla. 
add chopped vegetables. 
spread out cheese over tortilla. 
add pepperoni. 
once the cheese starts to melt fold in half. 
keep on skillet until cheese is melted throughout. 
you may have to flip/adjust heat so that it doesn't burn. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

ROASTED GARLIC ASIAGO DIP 

4.89 (19) 
Recipe by ratherbebaking 
   
“This is sooo good. Very rich. If you like garlic, this is a must try. The prep time includes ... More 
    
20 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  BellBiv 

Outstanding! Made this as an appetizer for a New Year's Eve party, and the dip was gone in 20 minutes. Guests loved it! Changes I made to this recipe include using 3 heads of ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

5 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 20mins 
YIELD: 4 cups	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 head garlic 
16 ounces cream cheese 
2 cups shredded asiago cheese 
1⁄3 cup heavy cream 
1⁄2 cup sour cream 
1⁄4 cup parsley, chopped 
1⁄2 cup mozzarella cheese, shredded 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 400. 
Cut the garlic head in half along theequator (with root and stem ends representing the poles). 
Place the garlic, cut side down on a foil lined baking sheet and roast uncovered 40 to 45 minutes or until tender. 
(or use your favorite roasting instructions) To remove the garlic, turn heads upside down and gently squeeze the garlic out of the skins. 
Reduce oven temp to 350. 
With a food processor or electric mixer, blend cream cheese, Asiago cheese, heavy cream, sour cream and parsley until well-blended add garlic and blend again. 
Place mixture into a casserole or baking dish and top with shredded mozzarella. 
Bake about 20 minutes until bubbly and golden brown on top. 
Serve with firm crusty bread, crackers or other dippers of your choice. 
I have added artichoke hearts to the dip for a nice change. 
Update: I have been replacing the heavy cream with sour cream (I have been using a total of 1 cup) and it comes out fine. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

BEER BATTERED FISH 

4.92 (27) 
Recipe by Chef Sunshine 
   
“This is a great beer batter fish recipe, and is very easy to do. We often fish all day ... More 
    
28 
PEOPLE DISCUSSING 
Join In Now  
Top Review by  Just Grill It 

Our favorite Fish & Chips Recipe. 
Since I'm usually cooking for just the two of us we find the amount of batter to be excessive. But that can't ... More 
See all reviews  
 
 
 

10 
VIEW MORE PHOTOS 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 20mins	SERVES: 8 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
2 quarts vegetable oil (for frying) 
8 (4 ounce) cod fish fillets 
salt and pepper 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
2 tablespoons garlic powder 
2 tablespoons paprika 
2 teaspoons salt 
2 teaspoons ground black pepper 
1 egg, beaten 
1 (12 ounce) bottle beer 
DIRECTIONS 
Heat oil in a deep fryer to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C). 
Rinse fish, pat dry, and season with salt and pepper. 
Combine flour, garlic powder, paprika, 2 teaspoons salt, and 2 teaspoons pepper. Stir egg into dry ingredients. 
Gradually mix in one beer until a thin batter is formed. 
You should be able to see the fish through the batter after it has been dipped. 
Dip fish fillets into the batter, then drop one at a time into hot oil. 
Fry fish, turning once, until both sides are golden brown. 
Drain on paper towels, and serve warm. 
  
 

 
 


START RECIPE

LEBANESE BEEF AND EGGPLANT STEW (MASBAHET ED DARWEESH) 

Be the first to review this recipe 
Recipe by lecole54 
   

ADD YOUR PHOTO 
“Could there be an easier set of instructions? This is from the sadly-defunct World ... More 
Made this recipe? Have a way to make it better? Share it with the world! 
 
 
 
 
' SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 25mins	SERVES: 4-6 
UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1⁄4 cup butter 
2 medium onions, chopped 
2 garlic cloves, chopped 
1 lb beef, cubed 
1 large eggplant, cubed 
1 large potato, sliced 
1 (15 ounce) can tomatoes, chopped 
2 teaspoons salt 
1 teaspoon pepper 
1 teaspoon oregano 
1⁄2 teaspoon aleppo pepper 
1⁄2 teaspoon sumac 
2 cups beef broth 
DIRECTIONS 
Sauté onions, garlic, meat, eggplant, potato and tomatoes in butter for 5 minutes. 
Add salt, pepper, oregano, cumin, Aleppo pepper, and sumac. 
Cover with broth and simmer for 1 hour. Most of the liquid should be evaporated: if not boil until it is. 
Serve over rice. 
  

 


 
 


START RECIPE

ZESTY KALE AND SWEET POTATO BOWL 

Be the first to review this recipe 
Recipe by WKernan 
   

ADD YOUR PHOTO 
“Loaded with veggies and has a touch of smoke from the spiced sweet potatoes” 
Made this recipe? Have a way to make it better? Share it with the world! 
 
' 
 
 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr	SERVES: 4 
YIELD: 4 2 cups	UNITS: US
INGREDIENTS  
1 lb diced peeled sweet potato 
1 teaspoon chili powder 
3 tablespoons broth or 3 tablespoons wine
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper 
1 red bell pepper, quartered 
1⁄2 cup roasted almonds, chopped 
2 teaspoons grated lime rind 
1⁄2 teaspoon sugar 
2 tablespoons lime juice
1 tablespoon cilantro 
2 cups cooked quinoa 
4 cups kale, chopped 
1 avocado 
4 lime wedges 
DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven 400. 
Combine sweet potatoes, 1 1/2 teaspoons broth, 1/2 teaspoon chili powder, 1/8 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon black pepper in a bowl: toss. Arrange sweet potato mixture on one side of an aluminum foil–lined baking sheet. Place bell pepper on other side of pan: drizzle with 1 1/2 teaspoons oil, and toss to coat. Bake until potatoes are tender and peppers are lightly charred, about 30 minutes, stirring potatoes once halfway through. Remove pan from oven. Cut bell pepper into strips. 
Cook almonds in a small skillet over medium until toasted, 2 to 3 minutes. Add 1 teaspoon broth, remaining 1/2 teaspoon chili powder, 1/8 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon rind, and sugar: cook, stirring occasionally, 1 minute. 
Whisk together remaining 5 teaspoons wine, remaining 3/4 teaspoon salt, remaining 1/4 teaspoon black pepper, remaining 1 teaspoon rind, juice, and cilantro in a bowl. Divide quinoa among 4 bowls: top evenly with kale, sweet potatoes, and bell pepper. Drizzle with juice mixture: top evenly with coated almonds, Cotija, and avocado. Serve with lime wedges. 

 


 
 


START RECIPE

HOMEMADE FRENCH BAGUETTES 

Be the first to review this recipe 
Recipe by Shrek278 
   

ADD YOUR PHOTO 
“Awesome homemade baguettes” 
Made this recipe? Have a way to make it better? Share it with the world! 
 
 
 
 
 SAVE RECIPE 
READY IN: 1hr 55mins	SERVES: 8 
YIELD: 8	UNITS: US 
INGREDIENTS  
1 1⁄2 tablespoons dry active yeast (2 Pks) 
2 tablespoons honey 
3 1⁄2-4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting 
2 teaspoons salt 
canola oil, for geasing bowl 
cornmeal, for dusting pan 
3 -4 ice cubes 
DIRECTIONS 
Combine the honey, yeast and 1/2 cup warm water. Stir to combine and let the mixture stand until the yeast is activated and begins to foam, 5 minutes. 
Mix the flour and salt in a large mixing bowl with a dough hook and slowly add in the yeast mixture. Gradually add 1 cup warm water and mix until the dough comes together into a ball that is not too wet (you may not need all of the water). If the dough is sticky, add a little bit more flour. Turn out the dough onto a floured surface and knead until the dough is smooth and elastic, 2 to 6 minutes. You can do the thumbprint test: press in the dough with your thumb and it should bounce back when it's ready. 
Form the dough into a ball, place it in a lightly-oiled bowl and cover with a dishcloth, so it doesn't dry out. Let rest in a warm environment until doubled in size, 25 to 30 minutes. 
Punch down the dough and divide it in half. Shape into 2 baguettes by making a flat rectangle out of your dough, then folding the top and bottom towards the middle, like an envelope, and sealing the seam with your fingers. Keep repeating the folding and sealing, stretching the rectangle lengthwise as you go, until it's about 12 to 14 inches long and 2 inches wide. Fold and seal either end to round. Flip seam-side down and place on a sheet pan or baguette pan that has been dusted with cornmeal. Score the tops of the loaves, making deep diagonal slits 1/2-inch deep, cover with a dishcloth and let rise in a warm environment until they have doubled in size, 25 minutes. 
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F and position your oven racks with one on the bottom and the other in the middle. Place an oven-safe (non-glass) bowl or pan on the bottom rack. 
When your bread has doubled for the second time, remove the towel and quickly and simultaneously, slide the sheet tray with the baguettes onto the middle rack while carefully throwing the ice cubes into the bowl on the bottom rack. The ice will create a burst of steam that will give you a nice crispy crust. Quickly shut the oven door so no steam escapes. Bake the baguettes until golden brown, 15 minutes. 
Cook's Note: If you have a glass window on your oven, place a towel over it when throwing the ice in, hot glass can shatter if ice touches it. 
  

 


 
 

Cholesterol15.3 mg (5.1%) 
Sodium38.9 mg (1.6%)  


START RECIPE

Herb-Marinated Pork Tenderloins 
287 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Ina Garten 
Show: Barefoot Contessa 
Episode: What are Friends For 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Herb-Marinated Pork Tenderloins  
4 videos | Herb-Marinated Pork Tenderloin (03:28) 
Total:3 hr 35 minPrep: 10 minInactive: 3 hr 10 minCook: 15 min 
Yield: 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
 Info  

 

Herb-Marinated Pork Tenderloin (03:28) 

How to Roast Meats (02:06) 

How to Mince Garlic (02:02) 
Ingredients 
1 lemon, zest grated 
3/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice (4 to 6 lemons) 
Good olive oil 
2 tablespoons minced garlic (6 cloves) 
1 1/2 tablespoons minced fresh rosemary leaves 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme leaves 
2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 
Kosher salt 
3 pork tenderloins (about 1 pound each) 
Freshly ground black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Combine the lemon zest, lemon juice, 1/2 cup olive oil, garlic, rosemary, thyme, mustard, and 2 teaspoons salt in a sturdy 1-gallon resealable plastic bag. Add the pork tenderloins and turn to coat with the marinade. Squeeze out the air and seal the bag. Marinate the pork in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours but preferably overnight. 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. 

Remove the tenderloins from the marinade and discard the marinade but leave the herbs that cling to the meat. Sprinkle the tenderloins generously with salt and pepper. Heat 3 tablespoons olive oil in a large oven-proof saute pan over medium-high heat. Sear the pork tenderloins on all sides until golden brown. Place the saute pan in the oven and roast the tenderloins for 10 to 15 minutes or until the meat registers 137 degrees F at the thickest part. Transfer the tenderloins to a platter and cover tightly with aluminum foil. Allow to rest for 10 minutes. Carve in 1/2-inch-thick diagonal slices. The thickest part of the tenderloin will be quite pink (it's just fine!) and the thinnest part will be well done. Season with salt and pepper and serve warm, or at room temperature with the juices that collect in the platter. 

2009, Ina Garten, All Rights Reserved 

START RECIPE

Italian Home Fries 
4 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Tuscan Brunch 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Italian Home Fries 
Total:25 minActive: 15 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
3 tablespoons butter 
3 cloves garlic, smashed into a paste with the back of a chef's knife 
1 small Spanish onion, halved and thinly sliced  
1 small red bell pepper, diced 
1 small yellow pepper, diced 
1 1/2 pounds small new potatoes, par-cooked and diced 
8 ounces Italian sausage, hot, mild or a combination, removed from the casing 
1 teaspoon paprika 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper  
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh rosemary 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Heat the butter on a cast-iron griddle or in large saute pan over medium-high. Add the garlic and onions and cook until softened, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the peppers and cook another 2 minutes. Add the potatoes, sausage, paprika and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring, about 2 minutes. Stir in the rosemary, and then start pressing the mixture onto the griddle so that the bottom gets brown and crispy and the potatoes stick together. Turn the mixture occasionally to distribute the crispy bits. Toss the mixture with the parsley and transfer to a serving platter. Drizzle with olive oil and serve hot or at room temperature. 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 

Categories: 
ItalianPotatoSausage RecipesVegetable 

Best of Food Network 6 Videos 

START RECIPE

Salmon with Brown Sugar and Mustard Glaze 
251 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Salmon with Brown Sugar and Mustard Glaze 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Salmon with Brown Sugar and Mustard Glaze  
Salmon with Brown Sugar (04:03) 
Total:1 hr 45 minPrep: 1 hr 30 minCook: 15 min 
Yield: 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
 Info  
HEALTHY 
Ingredients 
3 tablespoons light brown sugar 
1 tablespoon honey 
2 tablespoons butter 
1/4 cup Dijon mustard 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon finely grated ginger 
Vegetable oil 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
8 salmon fillets, 6 ounces each 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

On the side burner, melt the brown sugar, honey and butter in a small saute pan over medium-high heat. Remove from the heat and whisk in the mustard, soy sauce, olive oil and ginger. Let cool. 

Preheat grill to medium heat. Brush salmon with vegetable oil and season with salt and pepper to taste. Place the salmon skin side down on the grill. Coat the flesh of the salmon fillets with the brown sugar mixture. Grill for 6 to 8 minutes to medium doneness, turning once after 5 to 6 minutes. 

Recipe Copyright 1999 by Bobby Flay. All Rights Reserved. 

START RECIPE

Perfectly Grilled Steak 
74 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
From: Food Network Magazine 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Perfectly Grilled Steak 
Total:30 minPrep: 15 minCook: 15 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
4 1 1/4-to-1 1/2-inch-thick boneless rib-eye or New York strip steaks (about 12 ounces each) or filets mignons (8 to 10 ounces each), trimmed 
2 tablespoons canola or extra-virgin olive oil 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. 

Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes. Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). 

Transfer the steaks to a cutting board or platter, tent loosely with foil and let rest 5 minutes before slicing. 

Photographs by Steve Giralt 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay for Food Network Magazine 

START RECIPE

Bouillabaisse 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Beat Bobby Flay 
Episode: Smile Now, Cry Later 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Bouillabaisse 
Total:2 hr 45 minInactive: 55 minCook: 1 hr 50 min 
Yield: 6 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
Seafood: 
4 tablespoons canola oil 
6 sea scallops, patted dry 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Six 3-ounce halibut fillets 
Anchovy Butter: 
6 anchovies, drained and finely chopped 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, slightly softened 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
6 large red shrimp, such as Carabineros, shells and heads on 
18 mussels, scrubbed 
Three 8-ounce lobster tails, boiled in salted water for 5 minutes, drained and halved lengthwise 
To serve: 
1/4 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley, plus more for garnish 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh tarragon, plus more for garnish 
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest 
Six 1/2-inch-thick slices baguette, lightly toasted 
Finely chopped fresh chives, for garnish 
Shrimp Stock: 
1/4 cup canola oil 
5 cups raw shrimp shells, heads and tails (about 2 pounds), rinsed well 
1 medium yellow onion, peeled and coarsely chopped 
1 small carrot, coarsely chopped 
1 medium stalk celery, coarsely chopped 
1 cup white wine 
2 plum tomatoes, coarsely chopped 
10 sprigs fresh flat-leaf parsley 
1 bay leaf 
1/2 teaspoon whole black peppercorns 
Tomato Aioli: 
1/2 cup mayonnaise 
2 anchovies, drained and finely chopped 
2 tablespoons tomato powder 
2 teaspoons tomato paste 
1 green onion (green and pale green parts), thinly sliced 
Juice and finely grated zest of 1/2 lemon  
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Broth: 
2 tablespoons canola oil1 small head fennel, halved and thinly sliced 
1 small onion, halved and thinly sliced 
1/2 cup pastis, such as Pernod 
One 15-ounce can plum tomatoes, drained 
Pinch of saffron 
Pinch of Calabrian chile flakes 
1 head garlic, halved crosswise  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the shrimp stock: In a large saucepan over high heat, heat the oil until almost smoking. Add the shrimp shells and tails, onion, carrot and celery and saute, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes. Add the wine and cook until reduced by half, then add 10 cups of cold water, the tomatoes, parsley, bay leaf and peppercorns. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to medium low and simmer, skimming the surface occasionally, for 40 minutes. 

Strain the stock through a strainer lined with cheesecloth into a large bowl, pressing on the solids to extract as much liquid as possible: discard the solids. The stock can be made 2 days in advance and stored tightly covered in the refrigerator, or frozen up to 3 months. 

For the tomato aioli: Combine the mayonnaise, anchovies, tomato powder, tomato paste, green onion, lemon juice, lemon zest, salt and pepper in a small bowl. Cover and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes to allow the flavors to meld. 

For the broth: Heat the oil in a large, high-sided saute pan over high heat and cook the fennel and onion until they begin to soften. Add the pastis and cook until reduced by half, about 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes, saffron, chile flakes and 2 cups of the shrimp stock. Bring to a boil, add the garlic and cook until reduced by half, about 10 minutes. Add 4 more cups of shrimp stock, reduce the heat and cook until the flavors meld and the broth reduces slightly, about 20 minutes. Strain the shrimp-tomato broth into a large bowl, discard the solids, pour the liquid back into the high-sided saute pan and set aside. 

For the anchovy butter: Put the anchovies and butter in a bowl and mix until combined. Season with salt and pepper, cover and refrigerate until cold, at least 20 minutes. 

For the seafood: Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a large saute pan over high heat. Season the scallops on both sides with salt and pepper. Sear the scallops on one side until golden brown, about 2 minutes, then turn over and cook for 30 seconds. Remove to a baking sheet. 

Add another tablespoon of the oil to the pan and season both sides of the halibut fillets with salt and pepper. Sear on one side until golden brown, then turn over and cook for 30 seconds. Remove to the baking sheet with the scallops. 

Heat the remaining tablespoon of oil in the large saute pan, season the shrimp with salt and pepper and sear until the shells become lightly golden brown, about 1 1/2 minutes per side. Deglaze the pan with 1 cup of the reserved shrimp-tomato broth. Transfer the liquid to the remaining shrimp-tomato broth in the high-sided saute pan. 

Heat the shrimp-tomato broth over high heat. Add the mussels, cover and cook until they open, about 2 minutes. Remove the mussels to the baking sheet with a slotted spoon and discard any that did not open. 

Add the seared seafood and lobster tails to the shrimp-tomato broth, cover and let cook for 2 minutes. 

To serve: Add the anchovy butter to the broth and cook until thickened: stir in the parsley, tarragon and lemon zest. Top each baguette slice with a large dollop of tomato aioli and garnish with chives. Divide the seafood and broth among 6 large, slightly shallow soup bowls. Top each with a tomato aioli crouton and garnish with more parsley or tarragon or chives, if desired. 

START RECIPE

Red Wine Sangria 
116 Reviews
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Tapas 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Red Wine Sangria 
Total:24 hr 15 minPrep: 15 minInactive: 24 hr 
Yield: about 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 bottles red Spanish table wine 
1 cup brandy 
1/2 cup triple sec 
1 cup orange juice 
1 cup pomegranate juice 
1/2 cup simple syrup, or more to taste (equal parts sugar and water, heated until sugar dissolves, cooled) 
Orange slices 
Apple slices 
Blackberries 
Pomegranate seeds 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Mix all ingredients together and let stand in a tightly sealed container or pitcher for at least 24 hours in the refrigerator before serving. 

START RECIPE

Roast Prime Rib with Thyme Au Jus 
219 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Holiday Celebration 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Roast Prime Rib with Thyme Au Jus  
Prime Rib with Thyme au Jus (03:46) 
Total:2 hr 40 minPrep: 10 minInactive: 30 minCook: 2 hr 
Yield: 6 to 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 bone-in prime rib (6 to 7 pounds) 
8 cloves garlic, thinly sliced 
Salt and coarsely ground black pepper 
2 cups red wine 
4 cups beef stock 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme leaves 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
' how to make this recipe. 

Thirty minutes before roasting the prime rib, remove from the refrigerator and let come to room temperature. 

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. 

Make small slits all over the prime rib and fill each slit with a slice of the garlic. Season liberally with the salt and coarse pepper, place on a rack set inside a roasting pan and roast for about 2 hours until medium-rare, or until a thermometer inserted into the center of the meat registers 135 degrees F. Remove the meat to a platter, and tent with foil to keep warm. 

Place the roasting pan on top of the stove over 2 burners set on high heat. Add the wine to the pan drippings in the pan and cook over high heat until reduced, scraping the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon. Add the stock and cook until reduced by half. Whisk in the thyme and season with salt and pepper, to taste. 

Slice meat as desired and serve with thyme au jus. 


START RECIPE

Dark Chocolate Mousse 
108 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Culinary School Classics 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Dark Chocolate Mousse  
Bobby's Dark Chocolate Mousse (03:44) 
Total:1 hr 20 minPrep: 15 minInactive: 1 hrCook: 5 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
5 1/4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped 
14 ounces cold heavy cream 
3 large egg whites 
1-ounce sugar 
Sweetened whipped cream, for garnish, optional 
Shaved bittersweet chocolate, for garnish, optional 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Place chocolate in a large bowl set over a bain marie or in a double boiler at a low simmer. Stir chocolate until melted. Turn off the heat and let stand. 

Beat the cream over ice until it forms soft peaks. Set aside and hold at room temperature. With a mixer, whip egg to soft peaks. Gradually add the sugar and continue whipping until firm. 

Remove the chocolate from the bain marie and using a whisk, fold in the egg whites all at once. When the whites are almost completely incorporated, fold in the whipped cream. Cover the mousse and refrigerate for approximately 1 hour or until set. Serve in goblets topped with more whipped cream and shaved chocolate, if desired. 

START RECIPE

Smoked Whole Turkey 
5 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Barefoot Contessa 
Episode: A Barefoot Thanksgiving 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Smoked Whole Turkey  
2 videos | Bobby's Smoked Whole Tukey (04:43) 
Total:9 hrActive: 10 min 
Yield: 10 to 12 servings 
Level: Intermediate 

Bobby's Smoked Whole Tukey (04:43) 

All About Turkey (01:41) 
Ingredients 
1 fresh whole turkey (15 to 17 pounds), patted dry with paper towels 
Canola oil, for brushing 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 cup chicken stock 
2 tablespoons honey 
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Special equipment: wood chips (such as hickory, apple or pecan wood) soaked in cold water for at least 4 hours and up to 48 hours: a charcoal grill or smoker 

Remove the turkey from the fridge and allow to sit for 30 minutes to 1 hour before cooking. 

Meanwhile, prepare a charcoal grill or smoker for indirect heat, at approximately 275 degrees F. Sprinkle in wood chips (such as hickory, apple or pecan wood) that have soaked in cold water for at least 4 hours and up to 48 hours, and allow them to char before cooking. 

Place the turkey in a roasting pan fitted with a rack. Brush the entire turkey with the oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. 

Place the turkey in the grill or smoker and cook for 45 minutes. 

Meanwhile, mix together the chicken stock, honey and vinegar. Baste the turkey after cooking for 45 minutes. Repeat the basting every 45 minutes until the internal temperature of the thigh registers 165 degrees F and the breast registers 155 degrees F, about 3 1/2 to 4 1/2 hours, depending on the size of the bird. 

Remove the turkey to a large cutting board and let rest for at least 20 minutes before carving. 

START RECIPE

Tequila Cocktails 
10 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Fiery Fiesta 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Recipe Video  
Tequila Cooler (01:34) 
Total:5 minPrep: 5 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
10 ounces white tequila 
12 ounces fresh pineapple juice 
12 ounces lemon-lime soda 
Crushed ice 
1 cup chopped fresh pineapple 
1/4 cup chopped fresh mint 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Combine tequila, pineapple juice, soda, pineapple and mint in a pitcher. Serve over crushed ice and garnish with fresh mint leaves. 

START RECIPE

Cucumber Cocktail 
12 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Grill It! with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Have Fork, Grill Pork 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Cucumber Cocktail  
Cucumber Vodka and Tonic (00:58) 
Total:15 minPrep: 10 minCook: 5 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
 Info  
HEALTHY 
Ingredients 
1 cup cucumber vodka 
1 cup tonic water 
1/2 cup cucumber juice 
1/4 cup fresh lime juice 
1/4 cup simple syrup (equal amounts sugar and water heated until sugar dissolves: cool) 
Handful fresh mint leaves 
Ice cubes, for serving 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Divide the ingredients in half, add each half to a cocktail shaker and shake to combine. Pour over rocks glasses filled with ice and serve. 

START RECIPE

Buttermilk Biscuits 
6 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Southern Comfort Brunch 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Buttermilk Biscuits 
Total:30 minActive: 15 min 
Yield: s: 12 biscuits 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting 
4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1 teaspoon salt 
12 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces, plus more for greasing 
1 1/2 cups cold buttermilk 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper, not super fine and not coarse, somewhere in between 
2 tablespoons melted butter 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Grease a baking sheet with butter or line with parchment paper. 

Combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt in a large bowl. Combine until the ingredients are incorporated. Cut in the butter using your fingers or a pastry cutter until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Add the buttermilk and gently mix until the mixture just begins to come together. 

Scrape the dough onto a lightly floured counter. Pat the dough into a 10 by 12-inch rectangle about 3/4-inch thick. Cut into 2-inch squares or use a 2-inch round cutter to cut out biscuits. Press together the scraps of dough, and repeat the process. Place the biscuits on the prepared baking sheet. Brush the tops with cream and sprinkle with the black pepper. Bake the biscuits until lightly golden brown, 12 to 15 minutes. Brush the tops with the melted butter. Cool on a baking rack. 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Lobster Bisque 
59 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: FoodNation with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Mystic, CT 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Lobster Bisque 
Total:3 hr 15 minPrep: 15 minCook: 3 hr 
Yield: About 20 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
4 (1 1/2-pound) lobsters 
1 1/2 cups tomato paste 
1 1/2 cups coarsely chopped onion 
1 1/2 cups coarsely chopped celery, including leaves 
1 1/2 cups coarsely chopped carrot 
1 sprig thyme 
3 sprigs flat-leaf parsley, plus extra, for garnish 
1/2 teaspoon saffron 
6 cups heavy cream 
1 cup cream sherry 
2 tablespoons freshly ground black pepper 
1/4 cup cornstarch 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Fill large stockpot with water and bring to a boil. There should be enough water to cover lobsters completely when immersed. Place live lobsters in boiling water head first to minimize splashing. When water re-boils, turn down the heat, and simmer for 20 minutes. Do not overcook lobsters. Remove lobsters from the pot using tongs: save all the water in stockpot as this is now a flavorful stock to be re-used. 

Place 10 cups of stock in a clean stockpot and put on low heat. Clean claws and tails of lobsters and reserve meat, legs, and swimmerets. After lobsters are cleaned, place shells in stockpot with 10 cups of stock. Cut bodies in quarters and place in stockpot, making sure to include all roe and tomalley in pot. Add 1 cup tomato paste and simmer on low heat for 1 1/2 hours, stirring occasionally. Be careful not to have heat so high as to burn stock. Pour entire contents of pot through sieve into clean stockpot: this should now be 8 cups of glorious red stock. 

Place onions, celery, carrots, thyme, parsley and saffron in a large saute pan, add 4 cups stock from original stock pot and put on high heat for 30 minutes, stirring every 5 minutes. Add 1/2 cup tomato paste and black pepper. Turn down heat and simmer 30 minutes, stirring every 5 minutes. Press entire contents of saute pan through sieve into stockpot of 8 cups previously made stock. 

To finish Bisque, put pot on medium heat. Add heavy cream slowly, using whisk to blend. Add sherry. Simmer on low heat for 20 minutes: bisque will thicken slightly. Mix cornstarch with 1/4 cup water and slowly add to bisque with whisk. Simmer on low heat for another 20 minutes. 

If you prefer your bisque to be thicker, you may add more cornstarch, or perhaps, flour, but have found the bisque thickens nicely over low heat, and additional cornstarch or flour takes away from the wonderful flavor. 

Place pieces of previous cleaned lobster meat in bowl and add 1 cup of bisque. Garnish with legs and swimmerets around the bowl and one parsley leaf in center, if desired. 



This recipe was provided by a chef, restaurant or culinary professional. It has not been tested for home use. 


Recipe courtesy of Billie Bourque, Bank Street Lobster House, New London, CT 

START RECIPE

Grilled Tilapia with Lemon Butter, Capers and Orzo 
112 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Elegant Dinner on the Grill 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Grilled Tilapia with Lemon Butter, Capers and Orzo  
Grilled Tilapia & Lemon Butter (03:35) 
Total:1 hr 10 minPrep: 30 minInactive: 30 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 lemon, finely zested 
2 lemons, juiced 
1/2 cup dry white wine 
1 shallot, thinly sliced 
Splash heavy cream 
1 stick unsalted butter, cut into cubes, at room temperature 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
4 (8-ounce) tilapia fillets 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1/2 pound orzo, cooked al dente 
1/4 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves 
1/4 cup drained capers 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Combine the lemon zest, juice, wine and shallot in a small saucepan over high heat and cook until reduced by half. Remove from the heat and let cool. Whisk together the cream, butter and wine mixture in a small bowl and season with salt and pepper. Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes. The lemon butter can be made 1 day in advance and refrigerated. Bring to room temperature before serving. 

Heat the grill to high. 

Brush the fish on both sides with the oil and season with salt and pepper. Grill the fish for 3 to 4 minutes per side or until lightly golden brown and slightly charred. Toss the orzo with a few tablespoons of the lemon butter and 2 tablespoons of the parsley and season with salt and pepper. Transfer the orzo to a platter. Remove from the grill and immediately place the fillets on the orzo and top each fillet with some of the lemon butter and capers. Garnish with the remaining parsley. 

START RECIPE

Rum Punch 
23 Reviews 

The saying is: 1 part sour, 2 parts sweet, 3 parts strong and 4 parts weak. 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Jamaican Flavors 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Rum Punch  
Bobby's Rum Punch (01:17) 
Total:1 hr 5 minPrep: 5 minInactive: 1 hr 
Yield: 8 to 10 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 cup fresh lime juice 
2 cups grenadine syrup 
2 cups Jamaican white rum 
1 cup light rum 
2 cups fresh pineapple juice 
2 cups fresh orange juice 
Pinch freshly grated nutmeg, optional 
Orange slices, for garnish 
Pineapple slices, for garnish 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Mix all ingredients together in a pitcher or punch bowl. Chill in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour before serving. Garnish with orange or pineapple slices. 

START RECIPE

Philly Cheese Steak 
91 Reviews 
It's hard to think of Philadelphia without thinking of the cheesesteak, a sandwich containing chopped steak, melted cheese and sometimes peppers and onions. The big cheese steak debate, ongoing between rival restaurants Pat's and Geno's, is whether the steak should be topped with Provolone or American cheese, or canned cheese whiz. Bobby Flay's loaded cheese steak recipe is topped with a melted Provolone sauce, onions, peppers and mushrooms. ... Less 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Cheesesteak 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Philly Cheese Steak  
4 videos | Bobby's Philly Cheese Steak (01:24) 
Total:2 hr 15 minPrep: 30 minInactive: 45 minCook: 1 hr 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
 

Bobby's Philly Cheese Steak (01:24) 

Onion How-Tos (01:54) 

Washing and Chopping Herbs (01:35) 

How to Season Food Properly (02:07) 
Ingredients 
2 to 2 1/2 pound strip loin, trimmed 
Olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Soft hoagie rolls, split 3/4 open 
Provolone Sauce, recipe follows 
Sauteed Mushrooms, recipe follows 
Caramelized Onions, recipe follows 
Sauteed Peppers, recipe follows 
Provolone Sauce: 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter 
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 
2 cups whole milk, heated 
1 cup grated aged provolone cheese 
1/4 cup grated Parmigiano-Reggiano 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
Sauteed Mushrooms: 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter 
1 1/2 pounds mushrooms (cremini and shiitake), coarsely chopped 
3 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley leaves 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Caramelized Onions: 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
1 tablespoons canola oil 
3 large Spanish onions, peeled, halved and thinly sliced 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
Sauteed Peppers: 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 poblano peppers, thinly sliced 
2 Cubano peppers, thinly sliced 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Place steak in freezer for 30 to 45 minutes: this makes it easier to slice the meat. Remove the meat from the freezer and slice very thinly. 

Heat griddle or grill pan over high heat. Brush steak slices with oil and season with salt and pepper. Cook for 45 to 60 seconds per side. 

Place several slices of the meat on the bottom half of the roll, spoon some of the cheese sauce over the meat, and top with the mushrooms, onions, and peppers. 

Provolone Sauce: 
Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Whisk in the flour and cook for 1 minute. Slowly whisk in the warm milk, and cook, whisking constantly until thickened, about 4 to 5 minutes. Remove the mixture from the heat and whisk in the provolone and Parmesan until combined: season with the salt and pepper. 

Sauteed Mushrooms: 
Heat oil and butter in a large saute pan over high heat. Add the mushrooms and cook until the mushrooms are golden brown. Stir in the parsley and season with salt and pepper. 

Caramelized Onions: 
Heat butter and oil in a large saute pan over medium heat. Add the onions, season with salt and pepper, and cook slowly until golden brown and caramelized, stirring occasionally, approximately 30 to 40 minutes. 

Sauteed Peppers: 
Heat the oil in medium saute pan over high heat. Add the peppers and cook until soft. Season with salt and pepper. 

START RECIPE

Smoked BBQ Brisket 
38 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Smoked BBQ Brisket  
4 videos | Onion How-Tos (01:54) 
Total:5 hr 10 minPrep: 10 minCook: 5 hr 
Yield: 10 to 12 servings 
Level: Easy 
 

Onion How-Tos (01:54) 

How to Season Food Properly (02:07) 

Grilling Basics (03:26) 

How to Mince Garlic (02:02) 
Ingredients 
1/2 cup ancho chili powder 
2 tablespoons paprika 
1 tablespoon ground cumin 
1 tablespoon dry mustard 
1 tablespoon kosher salt 
2 teaspoons cayenne 
1 trimmed brisket with a layer of fat at least 1/4-inch thick, about 5 to 6 pounds 
Dark Beer Mop, recipe follows 
Dark Beer Mop: 
1 large red onion 
4 cloves garlic 
2 serrano chiles, chopped 
4 bottles of dark beer 
1/4 cup dark brown sugar 
2 bay leaves 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Mix together the spices in a small bowl. Rub the entire brisket with the spice mixture, place on a baking sheet, cover and let stand in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour or up to 6 hours. 

Prepare the smoker according to manufacturer's directions. Place the brisket in the smoker, fat side down, and smoke for 4 to 5 hours or until extremely tender. Baste with the mop every 30 minutes. 

Dark Beer Mop: 
Place all ingredients in a medium saucepan, season with salt and pepper and cook over medium heat for 15 minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool slightly. 

START RECIPE

Creamy Cole Slaw 
333 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Creamy Cole Slaw  
3 videos | Bobby's Creamy Coleslaw (01:19) 
Total:10 minPrep: 10 min 
Yield: 8 servings 
Level: Easy 

Bobby's Creamy Coleslaw (01:19) 

Onion How-Tos (01:54) 

How to Season Food Properly (02:07) 
Ingredients 
1 head green cabbage, finely shredded 
2 large carrots, finely shredded 
3/4 cup best-quality mayonnaise 
2 tablespoons sour cream 
2 tablespoons grated Spanish onion 
2 tablespoons sugar, or to taste 
2 tablespoons white vinegar 
1 tablespoon dry mustard 
2 teaspoons celery salt 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Combine the shredded cabbage and carrots in a large bowl. Whisk together the mayonnaise, sour cream, onion, sugar, vinegar, mustard, celery salt, salt, and pepper in a medium bowl, and then add to the cabbage mixture. Mix well to combine and taste for seasoning: add more salt, pepper, or sugar if desired. 

START RECIPE

German Potato Salad 
118 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Beer and Bratwurst 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
German Potato Salad  
3 videos | Bobby's German Potato Salad (03:09) 
Total:35 minPrep: 15 minCook: 20 min 
Yield: 8 servings 
Level: Easy 

Bobby's German Potato Salad (03:09) 

Onion How-Tos (01:54) 

Washing and Chopping Herbs (01:35) 
Ingredients 
3 pounds new potatoes 
1 yellow onion, quartered 
1/2 pound bacon, diced 
1 large red onion, diced 
3/4 cup cider vinegar 
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 
1/4 cup canola oil or olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
8 green onions, thinly sliced 
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley leaves 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Preheat the grill to high. Place potatoes in a large pot with the yellow onion and cover with cold water. Cook, on the grates of the grill, or on a burner, until tender. Drain, discard the onion, and cut the potatoes into cubes when cool enough to handle. Place the potatoes in a large bowl and cover to keep warm. 

Place a large saute pan on the grates of the grill. Add the bacon and cook until crisp. Remove the bacon with a slotted spoon and drain on a paper towel-lined plate. Add the red onion to the rendered bacon fat and cook until soft, about 3 to 4 minutes. Carefully add the vinegar and mustard and cook for 2 more minutes. Whisk in the oil and season, to taste, with salt and pepper. Add the hot dressing to the potatoes and toss gently to coat. Fold in the green onions and parsley. Season again with salt and pepper, to taste. 



This recipe has been updated and may differ from what was originally published or broadcast. 

START RECIPE

Korean Grilled Chicken 
25 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Grill It! with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Not Your Average Chicken 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Korean Grilled Chicken  
Bobby's Korean Grilled Chicken (01:27) 
Total:4 hr 50 minPrep: 10 minInactive: 4 hrCook: 40 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 cup soy sauce 
3 tablespoons rice vinegar 
2 tablespoons honey 
1 heaping tablespoon Korean chili paste (recommended: Kochi Chang) 
2 tablespoons grated fresh ginger 
6 cloves garlic, chopped 
1 green onion, thinly sliced 
2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil 
Freshly ground black pepper 
1 1/2 teaspoons toasted sesame seeds 
1 (3-pound) chicken, butterflied, cut into parts 
4 (6-inch) flour tortillas, warmed 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Whisk together the soy, vinegar, honey, chili paste, ginger and garlic in a bowl and divide the mixture in half. Add 1 half to a large baking dish, then add the chicken, turning to coat. Cover and let the meat marinate in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours or up to 8 hours. Add the green onions, sesame oil, black pepper and sesame seeds to the remaining half of the mixture. Reserve it as a dipping sauce for the finished chicken. 

Light a grill, making sure to include a zone of indirect heat. 

Remove the chicken from the marinade and put it over the charcoal, skin side down. Grill until the skin is golden brown and crisp, about 10 minutes. Relocate the chicken to the indirect heat zone, lower the cover and grill until cooked through. Remove the chicken from the grill to a cutting board and carve. Arrange the chicken on a serving platter and serve wrapped in tortillas, if desired, with dipping sauce on the side. 

START RECIPE

Coleslaw with Cumin-Lime Vinaigrette 
31 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Bobby Flay Fit 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Coleslaw with Cumin-Lime Vinaigrette 
Total:15 minPrep: 15 min 
Yield: 8 servings 
 Info  
HEALTHY 
Ingredients 
Dressing: 
1/3 cup fresh lime juice 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
Few dashes Bobby Flay's Hot Sauce, or your favorite 
1/2 cup olive oil 
Slaw: 
3 carrots, peeled and shredded 
1 medium head green cabbage, shredded 
1 red bell pepper, julienned 
1 red onion, thinly sliced 
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 
Salt and pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the dressing: Place all ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth. 

For the slaw: Combine all ingredients in a large bowl, toss with the dressing and season with salt and pepper, to taste. 

Recipe courtesy Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Korean Pulled Pork Sandwich with Asian Slaw 
15 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Barbecue Addiction: Bobby's Basics 
Episode: Grills Gone Wild 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Korean Pulled Pork Sandwich with Asian Slaw 
Total:10 hr 30 minActive: 4 hr 30 min 
Yield: 6 to 8 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
Korean Pulled Pork: 
1/2 cup low sodium soy sauce 
3 tablespoons gochujang (or more if you want it spicier)  
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce  
3 tablespoons ketchup  
3 tablespoons rice vinegar  
2 tablespoons clover honey  
2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil  
2 teaspoons Chinese five-spice powder  
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper  
4 cloves garlic, finely chopped  
2-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and finely grated  
5 pound pork butt, trimmed of excess fat  
Korean BBQ Sauce: 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
2 shallots, finely diced  
1 cup low sodium chicken stock  
1/2 cup ketchup  
2 tablespoons gochujang  
2 tablespoons honey  
2 tablespoons light soy sauce  
1 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder  
2 tablespoons rice vinegar  
1 teaspoon toasted sesame oil  
Asian Slaw: 
1/4 cup rice vinegar 
1 tablespoon honey (or sugar)  
1 tablespoon toasted sesame oil  
1 tablespoon low-sodium soy sauce  
4 ounces snow peas, julienned  
1 large carrot, julienned  
1/2 head Napa cabbage, finely shredded  
2 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds  
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper  
Soft sesame hamburger buns  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the Korean pulled pork: Remove the pork from the refrigerator 30 minutes before cooking. 

Whisk together the soy sauce, gochujang, hoisin, ketchup, vinegar, honey, sesame oil, five-spice powder and pepper until smooth. Rub the pork with the marinade, cover and refrigerate for at least 4 hours and up to 24 hours. 

Prepare the Caja China according to manufacturer's directions. Cook until the pork reaches 190 degrees F, 3 to 3 1/2 hours. Remove the pork, place in a baking pan, tent with foil and let the pork rest for 20 minutes. Reserve the juices for the BBQ sauce. 

For the Korean BBQ sauce: Heat the oil in a medium high-sided saute pan. Add the shallots and cook until soft. Whisk in the reserved juices from the pork, the chicken stock, ketchup, gochujang, honey, soy sauce and five-spice powder and cook until slightly reduced. Remove from the heat, add the vinegar and sesame oil. 

For the Asian slaw: Whisk together the vinegar, honey, sesame oil, and soy sauce until the honey is dissolved. Add the peas, carrots, cabbage and sesame seeds. Toss to combine: season with salt and pepper. Cover and refrigerate until cold, at least 1 hour. 

For serving: Using tongs, pull the pork into bite-size bits. Toss with the BBQ sauce. Mound some slaw on the bottoms of the buns. Top with the pork and the top bun. 

START RECIPE

Butterflied Chicken with Thyme, Lemon and Garlic 
36 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Grill It! with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Whole Chicken in No Time Flat 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Butterflied Chicken with Thyme, Lemon and Garlic  
Bobby's Whole Grilled Chicken (01:58) 
Total:3 hrPrep: 15 minInactive: 2 hr 10 minCook: 35 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
1/2 cup canola oil 
2 tablespoons, plus 1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh garlic, salt made a paste 
2 tablespoons, plus 1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh thyme leaves 
2 tablespoons grated lemon zest 
1 tablespoon chopped onion 
Pinch crushed red pepper flakes 
1 (3-pound) whole chicken, butterflied 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Whisk together the oil, 2 tablespoons of the garlic, 2 tablespoons of the thyme, 1 tablespoon of the lemon zest and 1 tablespoon of onion in a large baking dish. Add the chicken and turn to coat in the oil. Cover and let marinate in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours and up to 8 hours. 

Preheat the grill to medium. Remove the chicken from the marinade and season both sides with salt and pepper. Place the chicken on the grill, skin side down and slowly grill until the fat renders and the skin becomes golden brown and crisp, about 15 minutes. Turn the chicken over, close the cover and continue grilling until just cooked through, about 20 minutes longer. Remove from the grill, loosely tent with foil and let rest 10 minutes before cutting. 

Mix together the remaining garlic, thyme and 1 tablespoon of lemon zest and sprinkle over the cut chicken. 

START RECIPE

Roasted Vegetable Meatloaf with Balsamic Glaze 
68 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Meatloaf 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Roasted Vegetable Meatloaf with Balsamic Glaze 
Total:1 hr 55 minPrep: 30 minInactive: 10 minCook: 1 hr 15 min 
Yield: 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 large zucchini, finely diced 
1 red bell pepper, finely diced 
1 yellow pepper, finely diced 
1 yellow onion, finely diced 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
5 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
2 large eggs, lightly beaten 
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh thyme leaves 
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley leaves 
1/2 pound ground pork 
1/2 pound ground veal 
1 pound ground beef chuck 
1 cup panko (Japanese) bread crumbs 
1/2 cup freshly grated Romano 
1 1/2 cups ketchup, divided 
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. 

Heat the oil in a large saute pan over high heat. Add the zucchini, peppers, onion and salt and pepper, to taste, and cook until almost soft, 5 minutes. Stir in the garlic and 1/4 teaspoon the red pepper flakes and cook for 30 seconds. Set aside to cool. 

Whisk together the eggs and herbs in a large bowl. Add the meat, bread crumbs, cheese, 1/2 cup of the ketchup and 2 tablespoons of the balsamic vinegar and the vegetables and mix until just combined. Mold the meatloaf on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Whisk together the remaining ketchup and balsamic vinegar in a small bowl then brush the mixture over the entire loaf. Bake the meatloaf for approximately 1 to 1 1/4 hours. Remove from the oven and let rest 10 minutes before slicing. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Filet with Blue Cheese Butter 
11 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Grill It! with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Flay-va Filet 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Grilled Filet with Blue Cheese Butter  
Steak With Blue Cheese Butter (01:28) 
Total:50 minPrep: 10 minInactive: 30 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 stick unsalted butter, slightly softened 
1/4 cup crumbled Cabrales blue cheese 
2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh thyme 
Salt and freshly cracked black pepper 
4 (1 1/2-inch thick) filet mignons 
Canola oil, as needed 
1 teaspoon coarsely cracked black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Preheat a grill to high heat. 

Combine the butter, cheese, and thyme in a bowl and season with salt and pepper, to taste. Cover the bowl and refrigerate for 30 minutes. 

Brush the steaks with some canola oil, then season them with salt and cracked black pepper. Grill until the meat chars on both sides and is cooked to a medium-rare doneness. Transfer the steaks to a platter, top them with some of the butter and let them rest for 5 minutes before serving. 

START RECIPE

Key Lime-Coconut Pie 
17 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Key Lime Pie 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Key Lime-Coconut Pie 
Total:5 hr 5 minPrep: 20 minInactive: 4 hr 20 minCook: 25 min 
Yield: 1 (9-inch pie) 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Pie: 
4 large egg yolks 
2 teaspoons grated Key lime zest 
1 (14-ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons fresh Key lime juice 
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
8 whole graham crackers, broken into pieces 
1/4 cup sweetened coconut 
2 tablespoons light brown sugar 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 
Coconut Whipped Cream: 
1 1/2 cups very cold whipping cream 
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon coconut cream (recommended: Coco Lopez) 
2 heaping tablespoons confectioners' sugar 
1 vanilla bean, seeds scraped 
1/2 cup sweetened coconut, lightly toasted, for garnish 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the pie: Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. 

Whisk together the yolks, zest, condensed milk, lime juice, and vanilla in a bowl until smooth and thickened, about 2 minutes. Cover and set aside at room temperature for 20 minutes. 

Combine the graham crackers, coconut, and sugar in a food processor and process into fine crumbs. Add the butter and process until the mixture just comes together. Pat onto the bottom and sides of a 9-inch glass pie plate. Place on a baking sheet and bake until lightly golden brown and firm, about 10 minutes. 

Add the thickened filling to the warm crust, return to the oven, and bake the pie until the center is firm but jiggles slightly when shaken, about 15 minutes. Remove and let cool to room temperature, about 1 hour. Cover the surface and refrigerate until chilled and set, about 3 hours. 

For the whipped cream: Combine the whipping cream, coconut cream, sugar, and vanilla bean seeds in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment and whip until soft peaks form. 

To serve: Mound the coconut whipped cream on top and sprinkle with toasted coconut. 

START RECIPE

Jicama and Watermelon Salad 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Grill It! with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Chicken Breast Statler Style Cut 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Jicama and Watermelon Salad  
Chicken With Watermelon Salad (03:21) 
Total:15 minPrep: 15 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
 Info  
HEALTHY 
Ingredients 
1/2 cup fresh orange juice, plus 1 teaspoon zest 
1/4 cup fresh lime juice, plus 1 teaspoon zest 
2 tablespoons honey 
1 teaspoon ground black pepper 
Kosher salt 
1 jicama, cut into matchstick pieces 
4 cups watermelon in 2-inch chunks 
1/3 cup roughly torn fresh mint leaves 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Whisk together juices, honey, pepper and salt in a large bowl. Add the jicama, watermelon and mint and toss to coat. 

START RECIPE

Tuna Nicoise Burgers with Roasted Garlic-Tomato Aioli 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Tuna Nicoise Burgers 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:1 hr 55 minPrep: 1 hr 45 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
3 tablespoons mayonnaise 
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 
1 teaspoon white wine vinegar 
1 pound fresh tuna, finely chopped 
1/4 cup nicoise olives, finely chopped 
1/4 cup finely chopped basil 
1 tablespoon capers, drained and chopped 
1 large shallot, finely chopped 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
Roasted garlic-tomato aid: 
2 plum tomatoes, grilled, seeds removed and halved 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 
3 cloves garlic 
2 cups prepared mayonnaise 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
1 baguette, cut into fourths 
Mesclun greens 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Mix together the mayonnaise, Dijon and vinegar. Place tuna in a large bowl. Fold in the mayonnaise mixture, olives, basil, capers and shallots and season with salt and pepper to taste. Chill the mixture well. Divide the mixture into fourths and mold into burgers. Chill again for 30 minutes. Grill for 2 to 3 minutes on each side. 

Roasted garlic-tomato aid: 
Place tomatoes, lemon juice and garlic in the blender and blend until smooth. Add the mayonnaise and blend until just combined. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Portobello Mushrooms Stacked with Fresh Spinach and Shaved Manchego Cheese 
38 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Vegetarian Grilling 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:40 minPrep: 30 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 entree servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
12 medium-sized portobello mushroom caps, wiped clean 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 pound baby spinach, washed and dried 
4 ounces manchego cheese, thinly sliced into 8 pieces 
Sherry Vinaigrette, recipe follows 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh chives, for garnish, optional 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Heat grill to high. Brush mushroom caps on both sides with oil and season with salt and pepper. Grill, cap side down, until slightly charred, about 4 to 5 minutes. Turn the mushrooms over and continue grilling until just cooked through, about 3 to 4 minutes longer. 

Stack the ingredients on each of 4 salad plates starting with a mushroom cap, a slice of cheese, some spinach, and a drizzle of Sherry Vinaigrette. Add another mushroom cap, more vinaigrette, spinach, and another slice of cheese. Place a third mushroom cap on top and finish by drizzling with additional vinaigrette and garnishing with chopped chives, if desired. 

Sherry Vinaigrette: 
1 small shallot, finely chopped 

1/4 cup sherry vinegar or balsamic vinegar 

2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 

1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 

1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 

1/2 cup olive oil 

Whisk together the shallot, vinegar, mustard, salt, and pepper in a small bowl. Slowly whisk in the oil until emulsified. 

1 small shallot, finely chopped 

1/4 cup sherry vinegar or balsamic vinegar 

2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 

1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 

1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 

1/2 cup olive oil 

Whisk together the shallot, vinegar, mustard, salt, and pepper in a small bowl. Slowly whisk in the oil until emulsified. 

START RECIPE

Asian-Spiced Duck Breasts with Ginger-Chili Glaze 
8 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Asian Inspired 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:35 minPrep: 20 minInactive: 5 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
4 duck breasts, trimmed of excess fat 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Asian Spice Rub, recipe follows 
Ginger-Garlic-Chile Glaze, recipe follows 
1 bunch green onions, grilled 
Flour tortillas, grilled or warmed through 
Asian Spice Rub: 
2 tablespoons Spanish paprika 
1 tablespoon dry mustard 
2 teaspoons kosher salt 
2 teaspoons ground black pepper 
2 teaspoons ground star anise 
2 teaspoons ground ginger 
1 teaspoon ground allspice 
1/4 teaspoon ground red pepper 
Ginger-Garlic-Chili Glaze: 
2 tablespoons peanut oil 
2-inch piece ginger, finely chopped 
6 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
2 tablespoons hot Asian chili paste, (recommended: Sambal Oelek) 
1/2 cup honey 
1/4 cup low-sodium soy sauce 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Heat grill to medium-high. Score the skin-side of the duck with a knife in a lattice pattern, being sure not to cut through to the flesh. Season each breast with salt and pepper on both sides. 

Rub the skin side of each breast with a few tablespoons of the rub and place on the grill, rub side down, and grill until slightly charred and the skin begins to get crispy, about 4 to 5 minutes. Turn the breasts over, brush with some of the glaze and continue grill to medium-rare doneness, another 3 to 4 minutes. Remove the duck from the grill and brush with more of the glaze. Let rest for 5 minutes then slice 1/4-inch thick on the diagonal. Place the grilled green onions on a platter and top with the sliced duck breast. Serve with warm tortillas. 

Asian Spice Rub: 
Combine all ingredients in a small bowl. 

Ginger-Garlic-Chili Glaze: 
Heat oil in a small saucepan over medium heat. Add ginger and garlic and cook until soft. Add the chili paste and cook for 1 minute. Whisk in the honey and soy and cook until just combined and the honey has melted. Let cool before using. 

START RECIPE

Fried Chicken Sandwich 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Beat Bobby Flay 
Episode: East vs. West 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Fried Chicken Sandwich 
Total:1 hr 10 minActive: 40 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Mayonnaise: 
1/2 cup prepared mayonnaise 
2 tablespoons gochujang  
Finely grated zest of 1 lime  
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper  
Kimchee Slaw: 
1/4 cup rice vinegar 
1 tablespoon soy sauce  
1 tablespoon honey  
1/4 head napa cabbage, finely shredded  
1 cup chopped prepared kimchee  
1/4 cup fresh cilantro leaves  
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper  
Fried Chicken: 
4 cups canola oil 
4 cups all-purpose flour 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper  
1 cup unsweetened coconut milk  
1 cup buttermilk  
4 cloves garlic, chopped to a paste 
3-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and finely grated  
Four 6-ounce boneless skinless chicken breasts, pounded to even thickness  
4 buns, split, brushed with oil and toasted until lightly golden brown  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the mayonnaise: Whisk together the mayonnaise, gochujang, lime zest and some salt and pepper in a bowl, cover and refrigerate to allow the flavors to meld, at least 30 minutes. 

For the slaw: Whisk together the vinegar, soy and honey in a large bowl until combined. Add the cabbage, kimchee and cilantro. Season with salt and pepper, and then toss to combine. Cover and let sit at room temperature for at least 30 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 

For the chicken: Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Heat the oil in large Dutch oven or a deep fryer until a deep-frying thermometer inserted into the oil reaches 365 degrees F. 

Divide the flour between 2 large shallow bowls and season each with salt and pepper. Whisk together the coconut milk, buttermilk, ginger and garlic in a large shallow bowl and season with salt and pepper. Set up your breading station: flour, milk, flour. 

Dredge the chicken in the flour and tap off any excess. Dip in the milk mixture and let any excess drip off. Dredge in the second bowl of flour and tap off any excess. Fry the chicken, in batches, until golden brown and cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes. Remove to a baking sheet fitted with a baking rack. Repeat with the remaining chicken. Place in the oven to crisp up, about 5 minutes. 

Spread some mayo on each side of the buns. Top with a chicken breast and finish with some of the slaw, then serve. 

START RECIPE

Cranberry-Blackberry Relish 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Thanksgiving Feast 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Cranberry-Blackberry Relish 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
1 onion, finely chopped 
1 jalapeno, seeded and finely chopped 
1 tablespoon freshly grated ginger 
1 1/2 cups fresh orange juice 
1/2 cup sugar 
1 (1-pound bag) cranberries, divided 
1 pint fresh blackberries, halved 
Honey 
2 teaspoons finely grated orange zest 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Heat the oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Add the onions and jalapeno and cook until soft. Add the ginger and cook for 1 minute. Add the orange juice, sugar, and half the bag of cranberries. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the berries pop and are soft. Add the remaining cranberries and cook 1 minute. Remove from the heat, add the blackberries, honey, to taste, orange zest, and parsley. Season with salt and pepper. 

START RECIPE

PREV RECIPENEXT RECIPE 
White Tea and Rum Cocktail with Honey-Lime Syrup 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Buzz-worthy Brunch 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
White Tea and Rum Cocktail with Honey-Lime Syrup 
Total:50 minActive: 15 min 
Yield: 1 serving 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Honey-Lime Syrup: 
1/2 cup clover honey 
Peel of 1 lime  
White Tea and Rum Cocktail: 
2 ounces brewed white tea, cooled 
1 ounce white rum  
1/2 ounce fresh lime juice  
1 lime slice, for garnish  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the honey-lime syrup: Bring the honey, lime peel and 1 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan: cook until reduced slightly. Transfer the syrup to a container with a lid and refrigerate until cold, about 30 minutes. Remove the peel before using. (Makes about 1 1/3 cups: cover and refrigerate extra syrup for up to 1 week.) 

For the white tea and rum cocktail: Combine the tea, rum, lime juice, 1/2 ounce of the honey-lime syrup and some ice cubes in a cocktail shaker. Shake for 10 seconds. Strain into a martini glass and serve straight-up. Float a lime slice on top. 

START RECIPE

Beignets with Quick Homemade Blackberry Jam 
6 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: The Big Easy 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Beignets with Quick Homemade Blackberry Jam 
Total:2 hr 35 minActive: 15 min 
Yield: 4 Servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
1 (.25 ounce) envelope active dry yeast 
3/4 cup warm water, about 110 degrees F 
1/4 cup granulated sugar 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest 
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 
1 large egg 
1/2 cup whole milk 
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, divided 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened 
2 quarts canola oil, plus more to oil bowl 
Confectioners' sugar 
Blackberry Jam, recipe follows 
Quick Blackberry Jam 
1 quart fresh ripe blackberries, hulled 
1/2 cup superfine sugar 
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Mix the yeast, water, and sugar in a mixer bowl fitted with a dough hook. Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. Add the salt, lemon zest, nutmeg, egg, milk, and 1 1/2 cups flour: mix on medium speed until combined. Add the butter: mix until incorporated. Add 1 3/4 cups flour, and mix until the dough comes together. Turn the dough onto a lightly floured surface. Knead in the remaining 1/4 cup flour by hand until the dough is smooth, about 5 minutes. 

Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, cover loosely with plastic wrap, and let stand in a warm, draft-free spot until doubled in size, about 1 hour. Remove the dough from the bowl and punch down. Roll out the dough on a lightly floured surface to 1/2-inch thickness. Cut out circles with a 1-inch round cutter: place on a floured baking sheet. Let rise in a warm, draft-free spot for 30 minutes. 

Heat the oil in a medium pot or deep fryer until it registers 350 degrees F on a deep fry thermometer. Fry the beignets in batches, rolling them around constantly with a slotted spoon, until golden brown all over, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer the beignets with the slotted spoon to a platter lined with paper towels and dust with confectioners' sugar. Serve warm with the jam. 

Jam: 

Put the blackberries in a food processor and process until coarsely chopped. Transfer the mixture to a large skillet and stir in the sugar and lemon juice. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, and cook until the jam is thickened about 10 minutes. Transfer to a bowl and let come to room temperature. 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Roasted Green Beans with Shallots and Hazelnuts 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:20 minPrep: 5 minCook: 15 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 pound green beans, trimmed 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
4 shallots, thinly sliced 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1/4 cup hazelnuts, toasted and coarsely chopped 
1 tablespoon finely chopped lemon zest 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley leaves 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. 

Toss the green beans in a large baking dish with the oil and shallots and season with salt and pepper. Roast until just cooked through and golden brown, about 15 to 18 minutes. Combine the hazelnuts, zest, and parsley in a small bowl. Transfer green beans to a platter and sprinkle with the hazelnut mixture. 

START RECIPE

Crepes with Smoked Salmon, Ricotta, Red Onion and Capers with Lemon Creme Fraiche 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Time to Pull the Curtain on Crepes 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Crepes with Smoked Salmon, Ricotta, Red Onion and Capers with Lemon Creme Fraiche 
Total:1 hr 15 minActive: 1 hr 
Yield: 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Crepes: 
1 1/2 cups whole milk 
1 cup all-purpose flour  
1 tablespoon sugar  
1/4 teaspoon coarse salt  
4 large eggs  
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled  
Lemon Creme Fraiche: 
1/4 cup creme fraiche 
1/2 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest plus 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper  
Herbed Ricotta and Topping: 
2 cups fresh ricotta, drained through a cheesecloth for 2 hours 
2 teaspoons finely chopped chives 
2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh dill, plus dill fronds, for garnish 
2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh parsley 
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest  
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper  
8 ounces paper-thin slices smoked salmon 
1 small red onion, halved and thinly sliced  
2 tablespoons drained capers in brine 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the crepes: Combine the milk, flour, sugar, salt, eggs and 2 tablespoons of the butter in a blender and blend until smooth, about 20 seconds. Let the batter rest at room temperature for at least 15 minutes before using or transfer to a container with a lid and let rest in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. 

For the lemon creme fraiche: Whisk together the creme fraiche, lemon zest and juice and some salt and pepper in a small bowl. Set aside. 

For the herbed ricotta and topping: Put the ricotta, chives, dill, parsley, lemon zest and some salt and pepper in a medium bowl and work together with a fork. 

Heat a 10-inch nonstick skillet over medium heat. Lightly brush with some of the remaining melted butter. Add 3 to 4 tablespoons of the crepe batter and swirl the skillet so the batter completely covers the bottom. Cook until the underside of the crepe is golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes. Loosen the edge of the crepe with a rubber spatula, then with your fingertips, quickly flip. Cook 1 minute more. Slide the crepe out of the skillet and repeat with the remaining batter, coating the skillet with butter as needed. Stack the finished crepes directly on top of each other. 

Lay 8 crepes on a flat surface. Smear about 1/4 cup herbed ricotta in a wide strip down the center of each. Top with 2 or 3 slices of salmon, then gather the sides of each crepe around the filling, leaving most of the filling exposed. Scatter some onion slices and capers over the filling, then drizzle some lemon creme fraiche on top. Scatter some dill fronds on top and serve. 

START RECIPE

Lemon Ricotta Fritters with Fresh Berry Jam 
4 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Stephanie's Favorites 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Lemon Ricotta Fritters with Fresh Berry Jam 
Total:55 minPrep: 10 minInactive: 20 minCook: 25 min 
Yield: Approx: 36 fritters 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
4 to 6 cups vegetable oil 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon grated lemon zest 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1 cup whole milk ricotta 
2 large eggs, lightly beaten 
3 tablespoons granulated sugar 
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 
Confectioners' sugar, for dusting 
Lemon zest, for garnish 
Quick Berry Jam, for accompaniment, recipe follows 
Quick Berry Jam 
1 pound fresh strawberries, tops cut off and halved 
1/2 pint blackberries 
1/2 pint raspberries 
1/2 to 3/4 cup sugar, depending on sweetness 
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Heat 2-inches vegetable oil in a large, wide, heavy saucepan until it registers 370 degrees F. Whisk together the flour, baking powder, zest, and salt in a bowl. Whisk together the ricotta cheese, eggs, granulated sugar, and vanilla in another bowl, then whisk into the flour mixture. Working in batches, gently drop in tablespoons of batter and fry, turning occasionally, until deep golden, about 3 minutes per batch. Transfer with a slotted spoon to paper towels to drain. Dust generously with confectioners' sugar, garnish with lemon zest and serve with Quick Berry Jam. 

Quick Berry Jam 
Combine the berries and 1/2 cup of the sugar in a bowl and coarsely mash with a potato masher. Let the berries sit at room temperature for 15 minutes to allow the berries to release some of their juice. Taste for desired sweetness and add remaining sugar if necessary. Transfer berries to a medium saucepan, add lemon juice and cook until thickened, about 5 minutes. Transfer to a bowl, cover and refrigerate until chilled or serve immediately: transfer to a bowl and set the bowl over an ice bath, stirring until jam is cooled. 

START RECIPE

Fried Green Tomato BLT with Remoulade Sauce 
2 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Fried Green Tomato BLT 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:1 hr 35 minPrep: 20 minInactive: 1 hrCook: 15 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
1 cup rice flour 
1 cup water 
Few dashes hot sauce (recommended: Tabasco) 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
2 cups fine yellow cornmeal 
3 green tomatoes, sliced 1/4-inch thick 
Canola oil, for frying 
8 slices pain de mie, or other white sandwich bread, lightly toasted 
Remoulade Sauce, recipe follows 
1 pound applewood-smoked bacon, thinly sliced about 1/8-inch thick, cooked until crisp 
Watercress 
Remoulade Sauce: 
2 egg yolks 
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice 
1 teaspoon white wine vinegar 
Canola oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
1/4 cup whole grain mustard 
4 cornichons, cut into small dice 
1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh thyme 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Whisk together the flour and water in a shallow bowl until smooth. Season with hot sauce, salt, and pepper. Spread the cornmeal onto a plate and season with salt and pepper. 

Pat the tomatoes dry with paper towels. Heat 1-inch of oil in a cast-iron pan over medium-high heat until it begins to shimmer. Season the tomatoes on both sides with salt and pepper. Dip each tomato into the batter and let the excess drip off. Dredge in the cornmeal and pat off the excess. Fry the tomatoes, in batches, until golden brown on both sides. 

Spread both sides of the bread with some of the Remoulade Sauce. Top 1 side with a few slices of tomatoes, a few strips of bacon, and some watercress. Top with the other slice of bread, sauce-side down. Repeat to make 4 sandwiches. 

Remoulade Sauce:
Whisk together the yolks, lemon juice, vinegar until pale. Slowly drizzle in the canola oil until emulsified. Season with salt and pepper. Whisk in the mustard, cornichons, thyme, and season with salt and pepper. Refrigerate for at least 1 hour before serving to allow the flavors to meld. 

*RAW EGG WARNING 

Food Network Kitchens suggest caution in consuming raw and lightly-cooked eggs due to the risk of Salmonella or other food-borne illness. To reduce this risk, we recommend you use only fresh, properly-refrigerated, clean, grade A or AA eggs with intact shells, and avoid contact between the yolks or whites and the shell. For recipes that call for eggs that are raw or undercooked when the dish is served use shell eggs that have been treated to destroy Salmonella, by pasteurization or another approved method. 

START RECIPE

Yogurt-Fruit Muffins with Bran Crumb Topping 
2 Reviews 

Yogurt, fruit and bran - all in one easy to carry muffin. 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Brunch on the Go 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Yogurt-Fruit Muffins with Bran Crumb Topping 
Total:30 minActive: 5 min 
Yield: 12 muffins 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Batter: 
12 ounces thick Greek peach yogurt 
1 cup diced peaches, mangoes or pineapples 
1/3 cup light brown muscovado sugar 
1/3 cup pure cane sugar 
1/2 cup canola oil 
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
1 egg 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
Topping: 
1 cup bran cereal, such as All-Bran 
1/4 cup walnuts 
2 tablespoons pure cane sugar 
2 tablespoons light brown muscovado sugar 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Grease muffin pans or line with paper liners. 

For the batter: In the bowl of a stand mixer, combine the yogurt, peaches, brown sugar, cane sugar, canola oil, vanilla and egg. Mix until combined. In a separate medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder and baking soda. Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and mix until just combined. 

For the topping: Combine the bran, walnuts and sugars in a food processor and process until coarsely ground. Stir in the melted butter. 

Fill the prepared muffin cups with batter and divide the crumb topping over each muffin. Bake the muffins until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out with moist crumbs attached, 15 to 18 minutes. 

Transfer to a cooling rack and allow to cool completely. 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Bobby Flay's Tostones with Salmon Tartar and Avocado-Chipotle Relish 
4 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Tostones and Salmon Tartare 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:2 hrPrep: 1 hr 30 minCook: 30 min 
Yield: 4 servings as and appetizer 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Tostones: 
3 green plantains, quartered crosswise and peeled 
3 cups peanut or canola oil 
Kosher salt 
Cilantro leaves 
Salmon Tartar: 
1 lb salmon, cut into 1/4 thick dice 
2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
1 tablespoon pureed canned chipotles 
1/4 cup capers, drained 
1/4 cup finely chopped scallions 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
2 tablespoons finely chopped cilantro 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
Avocado-Chipotle Relish: 
2 Haas avocados, peeled and pitted 
1 tablespoon pureed canned chipotles 
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 
3 tablespoons creme fraiche 
Salt and pepper to taste 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Tostones: 
Heat oil in a heavy frying pan to 325 degrees F. Add the plantain quarters in 3 batches and fry until soft, about 2 minutes per side, turning once. Transfer to a paper towel-line plate with a slotted spoon to drain. Repeat with the remaining plantains. 

Heat the oil to 375 degrees F. Using a tostone maker, tortilla press, meat pounder or other heavy object, flatten each plantain slice until 1/8 inch thick. Fry the tostones until crisp and golden brown, about 1 minute per side. Drain on paper towels. Sprinkle immediately with salt. 

Salmon Tartar: 
Combine all ingredients in a medium bowl and season with salt and pepper to taste. 

Avocado-Chipotle Relish: 
Place avocados, chipotle and lime juice in a medium bowl and mash with a fork until almost smooth, but some texture remains. Add the creme fraiche and fold until almost combined (should have a marbled appearance) and season with salt and pepper to taste 

Assemble: 

Place a heaping tablespoon of salmon tartar in the center of each tostones and top with a teaspoon of avocado-chipotle relish. Garnish with cilantro leaf. Serve immediately. 

Copyright 1999 by Bobby Flay. All Rights Reserved. 

START RECIPE

Roasted Butternut Squash Ravioli with Sage, Hazelnut and Brown Butter Sauce 
14 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Butternut Squash Ravioli 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Roasted Butternut Squash Ravioli with Sage, Hazelnut and Brown Butter Sauce  
Nutty Butternut Squash Ravioli (05:57) 
Total:1 hr 10 minPrep: 25 minCook: 45 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
Ravioli: 
2 butternut squash, halved and seeded 
Pinch cinnamon 
Pinch nutmeg 
1 tablespoon finely chopped orange zest 
2 teaspoons chipotle puree 
1/4 cup finely chopped parsley 
1/4 cup finely grated Parmesan cheese 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
4 sheets pasta dough, 12 to 14 inches long by 4 inches wide 
2 eggs mixed with 2 tablespoons water 
Chopped chives 
Brown Butter Sauce: 
2 sticks unsalted butter 
1/4 cup coarsely ground hazelnuts 
8 sage leaves, chiffonade 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Ravioli: 
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. 

Place squash on a baking sheet and roast until soft 30 to 40 minutes. Scoop out flesh and run though a food mill. Place the puree into a medium saucepan and cook over low heat until almost dry. Add the remaining ingredients and season with salt and pepper to taste. Lay a sheet of pasta dough on a lightly floured work surface and distribute a heaping teaspoon-sized portion of the filling at least 2 inches apart. Use your fingertip or a brush to moisten the edges of the pasta sheet with the egg wash. Carefully place a second sheet of the pasta dough on top of the first and press with your fingertips to separate the rows of filling. Repeat with the remaining dough. With a ravioli cutter or pastry wheel, cut along straight lines on the vertical and horizontal to form each ravioli square. Press the edges closed with your fingertips to seal well. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Carefully drop in the ravioli and cook for about 5 minutes. Drain, plate and spoon butter sauce over and garnish with finely chopped chives. 

Brown Butter Sauce: 
Melt butter in a medium saute pan over medium heat and cook until the foam subsides and the butter begins to brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove from the heat, stir in the hazelnuts and sage and season with salt and pepper to taste. 

START RECIPE

Bouillabaisse 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Beat Bobby Flay 
Episode: Smile Now, Cry Later 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Bouillabaisse 
Total:2 hr 45 minInactive: 55 minCook: 1 hr 50 min 
Yield: 6 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
Seafood: 
4 tablespoons canola oil 
6 sea scallops, patted dry 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Six 3-ounce halibut fillets 
Anchovy Butter: 
6 anchovies, drained and finely chopped 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, slightly softened 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
6 large red shrimp, such as Carabineros, shells and heads on 
18 mussels, scrubbed 
Three 8-ounce lobster tails, boiled in salted water for 5 minutes, drained and halved lengthwise 
To serve: 
1/4 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley, plus more for garnish 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh tarragon, plus more for garnish 
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest 
Six 1/2-inch-thick slices baguette, lightly toasted 
Finely chopped fresh chives, for garnish 
Shrimp Stock: 
1/4 cup canola oil 
5 cups raw shrimp shells, heads and tails (about 2 pounds), rinsed well 
1 medium yellow onion, peeled and coarsely chopped 
1 small carrot, coarsely chopped 
1 medium stalk celery, coarsely chopped 
1 cup white wine 
2 plum tomatoes, coarsely chopped 
10 sprigs fresh flat-leaf parsley 
1 bay leaf 
1/2 teaspoon whole black peppercorns 
Tomato Aioli: 
1/2 cup mayonnaise 
2 anchovies, drained and finely chopped 
2 tablespoons tomato powder 
2 teaspoons tomato paste 
1 green onion (green and pale green parts), thinly sliced 
Juice and finely grated zest of 1/2 lemon  
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Broth: 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
1 small head fennel, halved and thinly sliced 
1 small onion, halved and thinly sliced 
1/2 cup pastis, such as Pernod 
One 15-ounce can plum tomatoes, drained 
Pinch of saffron 
Pinch of Calabrian chile flakes 
1 head garlic, halved crosswise  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the shrimp stock: In a large saucepan over high heat, heat the oil until almost smoking. Add the shrimp shells and tails, onion, carrot and celery and saute, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes. Add the wine and cook until reduced by half, then add 10 cups of cold water, the tomatoes, parsley, bay leaf and peppercorns. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to medium low and simmer, skimming the surface occasionally, for 40 minutes. 

Strain the stock through a strainer lined with cheesecloth into a large bowl, pressing on the solids to extract as much liquid as possible: discard the solids. The stock can be made 2 days in advance and stored tightly covered in the refrigerator, or frozen up to 3 months. 

For the tomato aioli: Combine the mayonnaise, anchovies, tomato powder, tomato paste, green onion, lemon juice, lemon zest, salt and pepper in a small bowl. Cover and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes to allow the flavors to meld. 

For the broth: Heat the oil in a large, high-sided saute pan over high heat and cook the fennel and onion until they begin to soften. Add the pastis and cook until reduced by half, about 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes, saffron, chile flakes and 2 cups of the shrimp stock. Bring to a boil, add the garlic and cook until reduced by half, about 10 minutes. Add 4 more cups of shrimp stock, reduce the heat and cook until the flavors meld and the broth reduces slightly, about 20 minutes. Strain the shrimp-tomato broth into a large bowl, discard the solids, pour the liquid back into the high-sided saute pan and set aside. 

For the anchovy butter: Put the anchovies and butter in a bowl and mix until combined. Season with salt and pepper, cover and refrigerate until cold, at least 20 minutes. 

For the seafood: Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a large saute pan over high heat. Season the scallops on both sides with salt and pepper. Sear the scallops on one side until golden brown, about 2 minutes, then turn over and cook for 30 seconds. Remove to a baking sheet. 

Add another tablespoon of the oil to the pan and season both sides of the halibut fillets with salt and pepper. Sear on one side until golden brown, then turn over and cook for 30 seconds. Remove to the baking sheet with the scallops. 

Heat the remaining tablespoon of oil in the large saute pan, season the shrimp with salt and pepper and sear until the shells become lightly golden brown, about 1 1/2 minutes per side. Deglaze the pan with 1 cup of the reserved shrimp-tomato broth. Transfer the liquid to the remaining shrimp-tomato broth in the high-sided saute pan. 

Heat the shrimp-tomato broth over high heat. Add the mussels, cover and cook until they open, about 2 minutes. Remove the mussels to the baking sheet with a slotted spoon and discard any that did not open. 

Add the seared seafood and lobster tails to the shrimp-tomato broth, cover and let cook for 2 minutes. 

To serve: Add the anchovy butter to the broth and cook until thickened: stir in the parsley, tarragon and lemon zest. Top each baguette slice with a large dollop of tomato aioli and garnish with chives. Divide the seafood and broth among 6 large, slightly shallow soup bowls. Top each with a tomato aioli crouton and garnish with more parsley or tarragon or chives, if desired. 

START RECIPE

Apple Pie 
115 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: FoodNation with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Toronto, Canada 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Apple Pie  
5 videos | Apple Pie (01:16) 
Total:1 hr 20 minPrep: 25 minInactive: 15 minCook: 40 min 
Yield: 8 to 10 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
 

Apple Pie (01:16) 

Pie Dough Basics (02:07) 

How to Roll/Crimp Pie Dough (03:04) 

How to Measure Dry Ingredients (01:48) 

How to Measure Wet Ingredients (00:58) 
Ingredients 
Pie Crust: 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
1 cup vegetable shortening, room temperature 
1 egg 
2 tablespoons cold water 
1 tablespoon white vinegar 
Apple Filling: 
5 Northern Spy apples 
3/4 cup fine sugar 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Combine the flour and salt in mixing bowl. Cut room temperature shortening into flour until mixture is uniform and shortening resembles large peas. Beat egg, water, and vinegar together to blend. Pour all of the liquid evenly over flour mixture. Stir in with fork until all of the mixture is moistened. Divide dough in half and shape each into a ball. Flatten each into a 4-inch circle. Wrap and chill dough for 15 minutes for easier rolling. 

Dust rolling pin and work surface lightly with flour. Roll dough to a uniform thickness. Roll to a circle about 1-inch larger than upside down 8-inch pie plate. Carefully place one dough circle into pie plate and gently press into form of plate. Trim excess dough around the edge with the back of a knife. 

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 

Peel, core, and slice apples. Mix apple slices with sugar, flour, and cinnamon. Place apple mixture in pie shell. Place second pie crust on top and form to the edges of the pie plate. Cut slits in the top crust to allow for steam to release in oven. Bake for approximately 30 to 40 minutes, until pie is fully baked and apples are tender. 

START RECIPE

Moussaka 
50 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Moussaka 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Moussaka 
Total:3 hr 15 minPrep: 30 minInactive: 55 minCook: 1 hr 50 min 
Yield: 6 to 8 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
Lamb: 
1/4 cup dried currants 
1/4 cup Greek extra-virgin olive oil, divided 
1 pound ground lamb 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 
1/8 teaspoon cayenne 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 large yellow onion, halved and thinly sliced 
1 red bell pepper, stemmed, cored, and thinly sliced 
1 serrano chile, finely diced 
5 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 cup red wine 
1 (28-ounce can) plum tomatoes, pureed until smooth with their juices 
1/4 cup chopped fresh flat leaf parsley, plus more for garnish 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh oregano 
Honey, if needed 
Eggplant: 
1 1/2 cups canola oil 
1 1/2 pounds eggplant, cut crosswise into 14-thick slices 
Bechamel Sauce: 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter 
1/2 cup flour 
2 1/2 cups milk 
1 bay leaf 
1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 
3 egg yolks 
1/2 cup soft goat cheese 
1 cup grated Romano 
1 lemon, zested 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the lamb: Soak the currants in warm water for 30 minutes. Drain. 

Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil in a 6-quart saucepan over high heat. Add the lamb, cinnamon, ginger, allspice, cayenne, and salt and pepper and cook, stirring to break up the meat, until browned, about 5 minutes. Transfer the lamb to a large strainer set over a bowl and drain: discard any liquid left in the pan. Return the pan to the heat and add the remaining 3 tablespoons olive oil and heat until it begins to shimmer. Add the onions and bell pepper and cook until soft, about 5 minutes. Add the serrano and garlic and cook for 1 minute. Add the tomato paste and cook for 1 minute. 

Return the lamb to the pan, add the wine, and cook, stirring occasionally, until almost completely evaporated, about 5 minutes. Add the tomato puree and currants and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer until thickened, about 30 minutes. Stir in the parsley and oregano and season with salt and pepper and honey, if needed. Remove from the heat. 

For the eggplant: Heat the canola oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat. Season the eggplant slices on both sides with salt and pepper. Working in batches, add the eggplant slices and fry until tender and lightly golden brown on both sides, about 5 minutes. Transfer the eggplant slices to paper towels. 

For the bechamel: Melt the butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Add the flour and cook, whisking constantly, until pale and smooth, 2 minutes. Still whisking constantly, add the milk and bay leaf and cook until thickened. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg and discard the bay leaf. Let the sauce cool for 5 minutes. In a small bowl, whisk together the egg yolks, goat cheese, and lemon zest and whisk into the bechamel sauce until smooth. 

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Butter a 3-quart baking dish or casserole dish. 

To assemble: Put half the eggplant slices in the dish and cover with half the meat sauce. Top the sauce with the remaining eggplant slices, and then the remaining meat sauce. Pour the bechamel over the top of the meat sauce and spread evenly with a rubber spatula. Sprinkle Romano evenly over the top, place the dish on a baking sheet, and bake until browned and bubbly, 45 to 50 minutes. Top with more chopped parsley, if desired. Let cool for at least 20 minutes before serving. 

START RECIPE

Sliders with Chipotle Mayonnaise 
75 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Pub Food 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Sliders with Chipotle Mayonnaise  
3 videos | Sliders With Chipotle Mayo (03:10) 
Total:20 minPrep: 10 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 6 to 8 servings 
Level: Easy 

Sliders With Chipotle Mayo (03:10) 

The Perfect Burger (02:44) 

Onion How-Tos (01:54) 
Ingredients 
Chipotle Mayonnaise: 
1 cup mayonnaise 
2 chipotles in adobo sauce 
1 tablespoon adobo sauce 
1/2 lime, juice 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Sliders: 
1 to 1 1/2 pounds ground chuck, 80/20 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Cheese slices, your choice 
Mini burger buns 
Burger Bar (if desired): 
Chipotle Mayonnaise, recipe above 
Pickles 
Red onion slices 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

For the chipotle mayonnaise: 

Add all the ingredients to a food processor and puree. Season, to taste, with salt and pepper. 

For the sliders: 

Preheat grill over medium-high heat. 

Form the meat into 2 to 3-ounce portions, packed tightly. Season with salt and pepper. 

Place the sliders on the grill. Wait until they are nice and crusty on the first side, about 4 to 5 minutes and then flip and cook another 4 minutes. When the sliders are about done, top with desired cheese and close the grill, allowing the cheese to melt. 

Place the slider on mini burger buns and top with chipotle mayonnaise and any other desired toppings. 

START RECIPE

Jerk Rubbed Chicken Thighs with Home-Made Mango-Habanero Hot Sauce 
50 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Caribbean Heat 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Jerk Rubbed Chicken Thighs with Home-Made Mango-Habanero Hot Sauce  
Jerk-Rubbed Chicken Thighs (03:19) 
Total:1 hr 26 minPrep: 30 minInactive: 35 minCook: 21 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
2 tablespoons ground coriander 
2 tablespoons ground ginger 
2 tablespoons light brown sugar 
1 tablespoon onion powder 
1 tablespoon garlic powder 
1 tablespoon kosher salt 
1 tablespoon cayenne powder 
2 teaspoons coarse black pepper 
2 teaspoons dry thyme 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon allspice 
1 teaspoon ground cloves 
8 chicken thighs 
Sliced fresh mango 
Homemade Mango Habanero Sauce, recipe follows 
Cilantro leaves, for garnish 
Homemade Mango-Habanero Sauce: 
1 tablespoon canola oil 
1 small Spanish onion, finely chopped 
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2 ripe mangoes, peeled, pitted and coarsely chopped 
1 habanero, chopped 
1 cup white wine vinegar 
Salt 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Combine all spices in a small bowl. Rub the skin side of the chicken with the rub and let rest for 30 minutes. Heat the grill to medium heat and grill the thighs, skin side down for 12 to 15 minutes, or until golden brown. Turn the chicken, close the cover of the grill and move the chicken to the side (or cooler part) of the grill. Continue cooking for 6 to 7 minutes or until completely cooked through. Remove to a platter and let rest 5 minutes before serving. Serve fresh mango slices and Mango-Habanero Hot Sauce. Sprinkle leaves of cilantro on top. 

Homemade Mango-Habanero Sauce: 
Heat oil in medium saucepan over medium heat. Add onions, garlic, mangoes, habanero and vinegar and cook over low heat for 15 to 20 minutes. Place the mixture in a blender and blend until smooth. If the mixture is too thick, add a few tablespoons of warm water or vinegar. Season with salt. 

START RECIPE

Pan Roasted Salmon with White Bean-Ancho Chile Broth, Cilantro Pesto and Roasted Shallots with Sauteed Kale 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Pan-Roasted Salmon 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Yield: 4 servings. 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Cilantro Pesto:  
2 cups cilantro leaves 
2 tablespoons pumpkin seeds 
2 cloves garlic 
3 tablespoons fresh lime juice 
1/2 cup olive oil 
1/4 cup freshly grated parmesan cheese 
Salt and pepper 
White Bean Broth: 
6 cups fish stock 
2 ancho chiles, soaked, seeded and julienned 
1 cup cooked white beans 
3 shallots, roasted, peeled and sliced thinly 
1 tablespoon honey 
Salt and pepper 
Salmon: 
Four 6 ounce salmon fillets 
Olive oil 
Salt and pepper 
Sauteed Kale: 
1 1/2 pounds young kale, stems and leaves coarsely chopped 
3 tablespoons olive oil  
2 cloves garlic, finely sliced  
1/2 cup vegetable stock or water  
Salt and pepper  
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the cilantro pesto: Combine in a blender and blend until smooth. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

For the white bean broth: Place fish stock in a medium saucepan over high heat and cook until reduced by half. Add the chiles, white beans and shallots and cook for 5 minutes. Add honey. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

For the salmon: Heat a grill pan or saute pan over high heat until almost smoking. Brush the salmon with olive oil on both sides and season with salt and pepper. Saute skin-side down until golden brown, turn the fillets over, reduce heat to medium and continue cooking for 3-4 minutes for medium doneness. 

For the sauteed kale: Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the garlic and cook until soft, but not colored. Raise heat to high, add the stock and kale and toss to combine. Cover and cook for 5 minutes. Remove cover and continue to cook, stirring until all the liquid has evaporated. Season with salt and pepper to taste and add vinegar. 

Copyright 1999 by Bobby Flay. All Rights Reserved. 

START RECIPE

Potatoes au Gratin 
22 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Grilled Pork Tenderloin 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 1/2 cups heavy cream 
3 Idaho or other large, waxy potatoes, peeled and sliced thin 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In an 8 by 8-inch baking dish, arrange a fourth of the potatoes, season to taste with salt and pepper and pour a fourth of the cream over all. Repeat with the remaining potatoes and cream, forming 4 layers. Bake for 50 minutes to 1 hour, or until the cream has been absorbed and the potatoes are browned. Remove from the oven and let sit 10 minutes before serving. 

Copyright 1999 by Bobby Flay. All Rights Reserved. 

START RECIPE

Fried Chicken and Wild Rice Waffles with Pink Peppercorn Butter and Maple-Horseradish Syrup 
12 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Chicken and Waffles 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Recipe Video  
'Fried Chicken and Waffles (06:39) 
Total:5 hr 15 minPrep: 35 minInactive: 4 hr 10 minCook: 30 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
Wild Rice Waffles: 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
1 1/2 cups whole-wheat flour 
1 1/2 tablespoons sugar 
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 teaspoons baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
4 cups buttermilk 
4 large eggs 
1/2 cup vegetable oil 
1/2 cup cooked wild rice (rice should be overcooked) drained well 
Melted butter, for the waffle maker 
Fried Chicken: 
1 quart plus 2 cups buttermilk 
Kosher salt 
2 teaspoons chile de arbol powder, or 2 tablespoons hot sauce 
2 chickens (3 to 4 pounds each), cut into 8 pieces 
3 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon garlic powder 
1 tablespoon onion powder 
1 tablespoon sweet paprika 
2 teaspoons cayenne 
Freshly ground black pepper 
Peanut oil, for deep-frying 
Pink Peppercorn Butter: 
2 sticks unsalted butter, slightly softened 
1 tablespoon pink peppercorns 
3 tablespoons clover honey 
Salt and pepper 
Maple-Horseradish Syrup: 
1 cup pure maple syrup 
1 tablespoon prepared horseradish, drained 
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

For the Waffles: Whisk together the flours, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon and salt in a large bowl. 

Whisk together the buttermilk, eggs and oil in a separate large bowl. Add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients and whisk until the mixture just comes together. Add the wild rice and fold until just combined. Let mixture rest for 10 minutes. 

While the mixture is resting, heat the waffle maker. Brush the waffle grates with some of the melted butter and make the waffles according to the manufacturer's directions. 

For the Chicken: Whisk together 1 quart of the buttermilk, 2 tablespoons salt and the chile de arbol in a large bowl or large baking dish. Add the chicken, turn to coat, cover and refrigerate for at least 4 hours or overnight. 

Stir together the flour, garlic and onion powders, paprika and cayenne in a large bowl and divide among 2 shallow platters. Season generously with salt and pepper. Drain the chicken in a colander and pat it dry. Dredge the pieces a few at a time in the flour mixture and pat off excess, then dip in the remaining 2 cups buttermilk and allow excess to drain off. Dredge in the second plate of flour and pat off the excess. Put the chicken pieces on a baking rack set over a baking sheet while the oil heats. 

Pour about 3 inches of oil into a deep cast iron skillet: the oil should not come more than half way up the sides of the pot. Put the pot over medium-high heat and heat the oil to 375 degrees F on a deep-fry thermometer. Working in batches, add the chicken pieces to the hot oil, 3 or 4 at a time and fry, turning the pieces occasionally, until evenly golden brown and cooked through, about 20 minutes. Remove from the oil with a slotted spoon and transfer to a rack to drain: repeat to cook the remaining pieces. 

For the Butter: Combine all ingredients in a blender and blend until combined. 

For the Syrup: In a small bowl whisk together all ingredients. 

To serve: Place waffle on plate, top with 2 pieces of fried chicken, and a dollop of butter. Pour syrup over top. 

START RECIPE

Honey Glazed Grilled Fig Salad with Feta, Pistachio and Mizuna 
5 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Barbecue Addiction: Bobby's Basics 
Episode: Feast From the Middle East 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Honey Glazed Grilled Fig Salad with Feta, Pistachio and Mizuna  
Middle East Grilled Fig Salad (03:54) 
Total:20 minActive: 20 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 
1 tablespoon clover honey  
Juice of 1/2 orange  
Salt and freshly ground black pepper  
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for brushing 
12 fresh figs, halved  
4 ounces mizuna  
6 ounces feta, crumbled  
1/2 cup chopped pistachios  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Whisk together the vinegar, honey, orange juice and some salt and pepper to combine. Slowly whisk in the olive oil until emulsified. Set aside. 

Heat a charcoal or gas grill to high for direct grilling. Brush the figs with some olive oil, season with salt and pepper and grill, cut-side down, just until slightly charred. Remove to a plate. 

Toss the mizuna with some of the vinaigrette. Transfer the mizuna to a platter and arrange the figs over top. Sprinkle with the feta and pistachios and drizzle some of the remaining dressing over top. Serve at room temperature. 

START RECIPE

Chocolate Caramel Hazelnut Ice Coffee 
2 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Brunch Buffet 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Chocolate Caramel Hazelnut Ice Coffee 
Total:5 minPrep: 5 min 
Yield: about 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 cups hot espresso 
1/4 cup simple syrup (equal amounts sugar and water heated until sugar dissolves) 
1/4 cup melted bittersweet chocolate 
2 tablespoons caramel syrup 
1/4 cup hazelnut-flavored liqueur (recommended: Frangelico) 
Ice cubes 
Whipped cream, for serving 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Stir together the espresso, simple syrup, melted chocolate, caramel syrup and hazelnut liqueur in a heat-proof pitcher. Cover and refrigerate until chilled. 

Fill tall glasses with ice and fill 3/4 of the glass with coffee mixture and top off with whipped cream. 

START RECIPE

Kir Royale 
4 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: French Bistro Grilling 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:20 minPrep: 5 minInactive: 15 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
4 tablespoons Chambord 
1/4 cup fresh raspberries 
1 bottle moderately priced French Champagne, chilled 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Place 4 Champagne flutes in the freezer for 15 minutes. Remove and add 1 tablespoon of the Chambord to each flute and a few raspberries. Fill each flute to the top with Champagne and serve immediately. 

START RECIPE

Honey-Bourbon Glazed Bacon 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Buzz-worthy Brunch 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Honey-Bourbon Glazed Bacon 
Total:40 minActive: 10 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1/4 cup clover honey 
2 tablespoons bourbon  
12 slices double-smoked, thick-cut bacon  
Coarsely ground black pepper  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. 

Combine the honey and bourbon in a small saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat. Remove from heat and let cool slightly. 

Lay the bacon on the prepared baking sheet and roast for 10 minutes. Brush with some of the honey-bourbon syrup. Continue roasting until deeply caramelized and crispy, another 10 to 15 minutes--the bacon will really crisp as it cools. Sprinkle with 1/4 teaspoon pepper and serve. 

START RECIPE

Hamburger with Double Cheddar Cheese, Grilled Vidalia Onion and Horseradish Mustard 
50 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Burgers 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Hamburger with Double Cheddar Cheese, Grilled Vidalia Onion and Horseradish Mustard  
Double Cheddar & Onion Burger (02:04) 
Total:33 minPrep: 15 minCook: 18 min 
Yield: 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 pounds freshly ground chuck 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
8 slices white Cheddar, sliced 1/4-inch thick 
8 slices yellow Cheddar, sliced 1/4-inch thick 
8 hamburger buns 
Horseradish Mustard, recipe follows 
8 leaves Romaine Lettuce 
Grilled Vidalia Onions, recipe follows 
Dill pickles, sliced 
Ketchup 
Horseradish Mustard: 
1/2 cup Dijon mustard 
2 tablespoons prepared horseradish, drained 
Grilled Vidalia Onions: 
2 Vidalia onions, sliced crosswise, 1/4-inch thick slices 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Preheat grill or a cast iron skillet to high. 

Divide the beef into 8 (4-ounce) burgers. Season on both sides with salt and pepper, to taste. Grill or cook in the skillet for 3 to 4 minutes on each side for medium-rare doneness. During last minutes of cooking add 2 slices of cheese to each burger, cover grill and let melt, approximately 1 minute. Place burger on bun and top with Horseradish Mustard, lettuce, Grilled Vidalia Onions, pickles and ketchup. 

Horseradish Mustard: 
Whisk mustard and horseradish together in a small bowl. 

Grilled Vidalia Onions: 
Brush olive oil on both sides of the onions and season with salt and pepper. Grill the onion slices for 3 to 4 minutes on each side until golden brown. 

START RECIPE

Churros with Spiced Sugar and Chocolate Dipping Sauce 
2 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Siesta Fiesta 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Churros with Spiced Sugar and Chocolate Dipping Sauce 
Total:27 minActive: 20 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Chocolate Dipping Sauce 
2 cups whole milk 
1 cup heavy cream 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
1/2 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise and seeds scraped 
1 pound bittersweet chocolate (66 percent), coarsely chopped 
1 quart canola oil 
1 cup water 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces 
1 1/4 cups sugar 
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour 
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
3/4 teaspoon ground anise seeds 
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
3 large eggs 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Combine the milk, cream, sugar, vanilla bean and seeds in a medium saucepan, bring to a simmer and cook until the sugar is completely dissolved, about 1 minute. Remove the pan from the heat, add the chocolate and let sit for 30 seconds. Whisk the mixture until smooth. Keep warm.: 

Put the oil into a large saucepan and heat over medium heat until a deep fry thermometer registers 365 degrees F. Place several layers of paper towels on a baking sheet and set aside. 

Combine the water, butter, 1/4 cup sugar, and salt in a medium saucepan over high heat. Bring to a boil and cook until the butter is completely melted and the sugar is dissolved. Add the flour, 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon and 1/4 teaspoon anise seeds and quickly beat with a wooden spoon until a ball is formed and the mixture becomes dry, about 2 minutes. 

Transfer the mixture to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and beat for one minute to allow some of the steam to escape the mixture and to cool slightly before adding the eggs. Add the eggs, one a time, beating every time until each is incorporated. Add the vanilla extract and beat for 20 seconds longer. Scrape the mixture into a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip. 

Combine the remaining 1 cup sugar, 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon and 1/2 teaspoon anise in a baking dish. 

Working in batches, pipe 6-inch strips of the dough into the hot oil and fry until golden brown, turning once. Remove with a slotted spoon or spider to the prepared paper towel-lined baking sheet. Let the churros drain for 30 seconds and immediately toss in the sugar mixture. Serve the churros warm with the chocolate dipping sauce on the side. 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Pumpkin Granola and Orange-Cranberry Jam with Maple Yogurt Parfaits 
5 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Thanksgiving Brunch 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Pumpkin Granola and Orange-Cranberry Jam with Maple Yogurt Parfaits  
Bobby's Thanksgiving Parfaits (04:36) 
Total:1 hr 5 minActive: 1 hr 5 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Pumpkin Granola: 
2 1/2 cups rolled oats 
1/3 cup pumpkin seeds 
1/3 cup chopped pecans, almonds or walnuts 
1/3 cup pumpkin puree 
1/3 cup light brown muscovado sugar 
1/4 cup maple syrup 
1 tablespoon canola oil 
2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/2 cup dried cranberries, optional 
Orange Cranberry Jam: 
Zest of 1 orange, grated 
1 cup orange juice 
1 cup sugar 
One 12-ounce bag fresh cranberries 
Maple Yogurt: 
2 1/4 cups Greek yogurt 
1/4 cup grade B pure maple syrup 
1/4 cup Pumpkin Spice Syrup, recipe follows, optional 
Pumpkin Spice Syrup: 
1/3 cup pumpkin puree 
1 tablespoon pumpkin pie spice 
1 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 cup light brown sugar 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Maple Yogurt: 
Special equipment: 4 parfait glasses 

For the pumpkin granola: Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line a half sheet pan with parchment paper and lightly spray with nonstick spray: set aside. 

Put the oats, seeds and nuts in a large bowl.  Combine the pumpkin puree, sugar, maple syrup, oil and pumpkin pie spice in a medium saucepan and bring to a boil over medium heat and let it cook for 1 minute longer, whisking occasionally. Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla extract. 

Pour the wet ingredients over the oat mixture and stir until the oats are fully coated. The mixture will be pretty wet. Evenly spread the mixture, in a single layer, onto the prepared baking sheet. Bake for 20 minutes, then stir and bake for an additional 15-20 minutes or until the granola is golden brown and crisp. Cool on a baking rack. Transfer to a bowl and stir in the cranberries, if using.  Store leftovers in an airtight container in a cool, dark, place, for up to 1 week. 

For the orange cranberry jam: Combine the orange juice and zest, and the sugar in a medium saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat. Cook until the sugar has melted. Add the cranberries, reduce the heat so the mixture simmers, and cook until the cranberries pop and the mixture thickens slightly (it will thicken much more as it cools), about 10 minutes. Transfer to a bowl and let cool. Makes about 2 cups: store leftovers in the refrigerator, covered, for 2 weeks. 

For the maple yogurt: Whisk together the yogurt and 2 tablespoons maple syrup until smooth: taste, and add more maple syrup if you'd like it sweeter. Chill. 

To assemble the parfaits: Dollop 1/4 cup maple yogurt in the bottoms of 4 parfait glasses. Follow that with about 1/4 cup of pumpkin granola, another 1/4 cup of yogurt, about 2 tablespoons of orange cranberry jam, then a little more yogurt and a few more tablespoons of granola. Drizzle over some Pumpkin Spice Syrup, if using. Serve. 

Pumpkin Spice Syrup: 
Combine the pumpkin puree and pumpkin pie spice in a small saucepan over medium heat and cook until the mixture thickens slightly and the spices become fragrant, about 3 minutes. 

Combine 2 cups cold water and the granulated and brown sugars in a medium saucepan, bring to a boil over high heat and cook, whisking occasionally, until the mixture thickens and reduces slightly, about 5 minutes. 

Reduce the heat to low, whisk in the spiced pumpkin puree and cook, stirring occasionally for 10 minutes. Do not allow the mixture to boil after you add the pumpkin or the syrup will become cloudy (even after straining.)  Remove from the heat and let the mixture cool for 10 minutes. 

Place a mesh strainer over a medium bowl and line the strainer with several layers of cheesecloth. Pour the mixture through the strainer and let it strain slowly into the bowl. Add the vanilla extract to the syrup and transfer to a container with a tight fitting lid.  The syrup will last 1 month stored in the refrigerator. Makes about 1 1/2 cups: leftovers can be refrigerated for 1 week. 

START RECIPE

Harvest Margarita 
13 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Thanksgiving Live 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Harvest Margarita 
Total:1 hr 15 minPrep: 10 minInactive: 1 hrCook: 5 min 
Yield: 1 serving 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 ounces tequila, such as Patron reposado tequila 
1 1/2 ounces chilled Spiced Simple Syrup, recipe follows 
1/2 ounce freshly squeezed lime juice 
Few dashes bitters 
Ice 
Lime wedge, for garnish 
Spiced Simple Syrup: 
1 cup sugar 
8 whole allspice berries 
8 whole cloves 
3 cinnamon sticks 
1-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and coarsely chopped 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Combine the tequila, simple syrup, lime juice, bitters and ice in a cocktail shaker and shake for 10 seconds. Serve straight up or on the rocks with a lime wedge for garnish. 

Spiced Simple Syrup: 
Combine the sugar, 1 cup water, allspice, cloves, cinnamon and ginger in a small saucepan. Bring to a boil and cook until the sugar is completely melted. Remove from the heat and let steep for 1 hour. Strain into a small bowl, cover and refrigerate until cold. 

START RECIPE

Key Lime-Coconut Pie 
17 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Key Lime Pie 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Key Lime-Coconut Pie 
Total:5 hr 5 minPrep: 20 minInactive: 4 hr 20 minCook: 25 min 
Yield: 1 (9-inch pie) 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Pie: 
4 large egg yolks 
2 teaspoons grated Key lime zest 
1 (14-ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons fresh Key lime juice 
'1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
8 whole graham crackers, broken into pieces 
1/4 cup sweetened coconut 
2 tablespoons light brown sugar 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 
Coconut Whipped Cream: 
1 1/2 cups very cold whipping cream 
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon coconut cream (recommended: Coco Lopez) 
2 heaping tablespoons confectioners' sugar 
1 vanilla bean, seeds scraped 
1/2 cup sweetened coconut, lightly toasted, for garnish 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the pie: Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. 

Whisk together the yolks, zest, condensed milk, lime juice, and vanilla in a bowl until smooth and thickened, about 2 minutes. Cover and set aside at room temperature for 20 minutes. 

Combine the graham crackers, coconut, and sugar in a food processor and process into fine crumbs. Add the butter and process until the mixture just comes together. Pat onto the bottom and sides of a 9-inch glass pie plate. Place on a baking sheet and bake until lightly golden brown and firm, about 10 minutes. 

Add the thickened filling to the warm crust, return to the oven, and bake the pie until the center is firm but jiggles slightly when shaken, about 15 minutes. Remove and let cool to room temperature, about 1 hour. Cover the surface and refrigerate until chilled and set, about 3 hours. 

For the whipped cream: Combine the whipping cream, coconut cream, sugar, and vanilla bean seeds in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment and whip until soft peaks form. 

To serve: Mound the coconut whipped cream on top and sprinkle with toasted coconut. 

START RECIPE

Healthy Pasta with Spicy Crab 
1 Review 
I was training for a marathon when I created this recipe. Crab is high in protein but low in fat, so it's a great balance to the ... More 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
From: Food Network Magazine 
Show: Bobby Flay Fit 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Healthy Pasta with Spicy Crab 
Total:30 minPrep: 10 minCook: 20 min 
Yield: 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
 Info  
Ingredients 
Kosher salt 
1 pound spaghetti 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
2 Fresno chile peppers, finely chopped 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 cup dry white wine 
1 pound jumbo lump crabmeat, picked over 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh dill 
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh mint 
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon zest 
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzling 
Freshly ground pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the spaghetti and cook as the label directs until al dente. Reserve 1 cup cooking water, then drain the pasta. 

Meanwhile, heat the canola oil in a large high-sided saute pan over medium heat. Add the chiles and garlic and cook until soft and the garlic is pale golden brown, about 3 minutes. Add the wine and cook until reduced by half, about 5 minutes. Add the crab and cook until just heated through, about 1 minute. 

Add the pasta and some of the cooking water to the pan and cook for another minute. Stir in the parsley, dill, mint and lemon zest. Drizzle with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay for Food Network Magazine 

START RECIPE

Herb Roasted and Braised Turkey 
16 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Thanksgiving Live 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Herb Roasted and Braised Turkey 
Total:4 hr 55 minPrep: 25 minInactive: 1 hr 30 minCook: 3 hr 
Yield: 8 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
Turkey: 
One 17-pound whole fresh turkey, rinsed well and patted dry 
1 1/4 sticks unsalted butter, slightly softened 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh rosemary 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh sage 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh thyme leaves 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 large carrots, cut into 1-inch pieces 
3 large stalks celery, cut into 1-inch pieces 
2 large onions, quartered 
12 cups homemade chicken stock 
Gravy: 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
1 head roasted garlic, cloves removed and peeled 
Splash of white wine, optional 
Mixed chopped fresh herbs, such as parsley, rosemary, sage and thyme. optional 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the turkey: Remove the turkey from the refrigerator 1 hour before roasting. 

Combine the butter, parsley, rosemary, sage and thyme and in a food processor and process until smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 

Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Sprinkle the cavity of the turkey with salt and pepper and fill the cavity with half the carrots, celery and onions. Rub the entire turkey with the herb butter and sprinkle liberally with salt and pepper. 

Put 4 cups of the chicken stock in a medium saucepan and keep warm over low heat. 

Place the remaining vegetables on the bottom of a large roasting pan. Put the turkey on top of the vegetables, put in the oven and roast until lightly golden brown, about 45 minutes. Reduce the heat to 350 degrees F and continue roasting, basting with the warm chicken stock every 15 minutes, 2 to 2 hours 15 minutes hours longer. (An instant-read thermometer inserted in the thigh should register 160 degrees F.) 

Remove the turkey from the oven, transfer to baking sheet, tent loosely with foil and let rest 30 minutes before slicing. Remove the legs for braising. Strain the drippings into a bowl and discard the solids. Add enough stock to make 4 cups liquid. 

Bring the liquid to a simmer, transfer to a roasting pan, add the legs, cover with foil and braise until tender in a 350 F degree oven about 1 hour. 

For the gravy: Melt the butter in a medium pan over high heat. Add the roasted garlic and cook for a minute. Whisk in the flour and cook until lightly golden brown. Slowly whisk the drippings into the flour mixture, bring to a boil and whisk until the mixture begins to thicken and the flour taste has been cooked out, about 5 minutes. Add a splash of the white wine if desired and cook for 1 minute longer. Fold in fresh herbs if desired and season with salt and pepper. Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE

Pain Perdue with Fresh Peaches and Vanilla Butter 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Cuisine du Jour 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Pain Perdue with Fresh Peaches and Vanilla Butter 
Total:50 minActive: 15 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Caramelized Peaches 
2 ripe peaches, skin removed, pitted and sliced into eighths 
2 ripe white peaches, skin removed, pitted and sliced into eighths 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
2 tablespoons light brown muscovado sugar 
3 tablespoons peach eau de vie 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
1 tablespoon chiffonade mint leaves 
Pain Perdue 
4 large eggs 
1/4 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon fine salt 
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
2 cups whole milk, plus more if needed 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
8 (3/4-inch thick) slices day old brioche 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
4 tablespoons canola oil 
3 cups feuilletine, crushed 
Vanilla Bean Butter, to top, recipe follows 
Maple syrup, to serve 
1/4 cup chopped fresh mint leaves, to garnish 
Vanilla Bean Butter 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, slightly softened 
1 vanilla bean, halved horizontally, and seeds scraped 
1 tablespoon sugar 
Pinch fine sea salt 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Pain Perdue 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. 

For the caramelized peaches: 

Combine the peaches, granulated sugar, muscovado sugar and peach eau de vie in a large bowl. In a heated pan, add the butter and vanilla extract. Toss in the peaches and cook just to heat through, about 5 minutes. Toss again with the mint. Set aside and keep warm. 

For the pain perdue: 

Whisk together the eggs and sugar in a large baking dish until combined. Add the cinnamon, salt, nutmeg, milk, cream and vanilla extract and whisk until smooth. Add the bread, in batches and let soak on each side for 1 to 2 minutes until soaked through. While the bread is soaking, heat 2 tablespoons of the butter and 2 tablespoons of the oil on a large griddle over medium-high heat until butter is melted and oil begins to shimmer. 

Spread the feuilletine crushed wafers in a large baking dish and dip the bread on each side in the mixture, pressing gently to adhere. Place the bread on the hot griddle and cook each side until golden brown. 

Transfer to a baking sheet and bake in the oven to completely heat through, about 5 minutes. Serve 2 pieces per person, topped with a dollop of the vanilla butter and spoonfuls of the caramelized peaches. Top with maple syrup and mint and serve. 

Vanilla Bean Butter 
Vanilla Bean Butter: 

Stir together the butter, vanilla bean seeds, sugar, and salt in a small bowl until combined. 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Crunchy 3-Cabbage Slaw 
7 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: BBQ 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Crunchy 3-Cabbage Slaw 
Total:30 minPrep: 30 min 
Yield: 6 to 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1/2 small head green cabbage, shredded 
1/2 small head red cabbage, shredded 
1/2 small head napa cabbage, shredded 
2 carrots, shredded 
1 red onion, halved and thinly sliced 
1 yellow pepper, halved, seeded and cut into thin strips 
1 orange pepper, halved, seeded and cut into thin strips 
2 jalapeno peppers, finely diced 
1/2 cup cider vinegar 
2 teaspoons dry mustard 
2 teaspoons sugar 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1/3 cup vegetable oil 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Toss together the cabbage, carrots, onion, bell peppers and jalapeno peppers in a large bowl. Whisk together the vinegar, mustard, and sugar in a medium bowl: season with salt and pepper. Slowly whisk in the oil. Pour the dressing over the vegetables and toss to coat. Season with salt and pepper. Let sit 15 minutes at room temperature before serving. 

START RECIPE

Crostini with Mascarpone, Grilled Scallion, Tomato and Balsamic Glaze 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Grill It! with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Jumbo Shrimp, Jumbo Flavor 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Crostini with Mascarpone, Grilled Scallion, Tomato and Balsamic Glaze  
Tomato-Scallion Crostini (01:11) 
Total:20 minPrep: 10 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 loaf Italian or French bread, cut into 1/4-inch thick slices 
Olive oil 
Salt and freshly cracked black pepper 
4 plum tomatoes, cut into thick slices 
Canola oil 
1 cup mascarpone 
1 bunch scallions, grilled, cut in bite-size pieces 
2 cups balsamic vinegar, reduced to glaze with a little honey 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Preheat the grill to high heat. 

Brush the bread with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper, to taste. Put on the grill and cook until lightly toasted. Brush the tomatoes with canola oil and grill until slightly charred. Remove and coarsely chop. Remove the bread from the grill and spread the slices with mascarpone. Season with salt and pepper, to taste. Put the bread back on the grill over indirect heat to warm the cheese. Remove the crostini from the grill to a serving platter and top with the tomato and scallions. Drizzle with balsamic glaze, sprinkle with more salt and pepper, to taste, and serve. 

START RECIPE

Home Fries with Za'atar, Red Chile, Cilantro, Lime and Clove-Scented Ketchup 
4 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Entertaining Middle Eastern Style 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Home Fries with Za'atar, Red Chile, Cilantro, Lime and Clove-Scented Ketchup 
Total:50 minActive: 50 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Clove-Scented Ketchup: 
1 cup ketchup, such as Heinz 
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves  
Home Fries: 
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
5 large russet potatoes, parboiled in salted water, peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes 
2 teaspoons za'atar  
1/2 teaspoon paprika  
1/4 teaspoon turmeric  
Kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper  
1 tablespoon vegetable oil  
2 Fresno chiles, thinly sliced  
1/4 cup coarsely chopped mixed herbs (a combination of cilantro, dill and parsley)  
Juice of 1 lime 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the clove-scented ketchup: Whisk together the ketchup and clove in a small bowl. Cover and let sit at room temperature. 

For the Home Fries: Heat the butter in a large cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat until it begins to shimmer. Add the potatoes, za'atar, paprika, turmeric and a very generous amount of salt and toss to coat the potatoes. Use a spatula to press and crush the potatoes against the bottom of the pan. Cook until golden brown and crisp on the bottom, about 4 minutes. Turn in large chunks and press again to crisp. Cook until browned on the bottom, another 4 minutes. Taste and add salt as needed. 

While the potatoes crisp, heat the vegetable oil in a small skillet over medium heat. Add the chiles and cook, stirring, until warmed and very slightly softened, about 1 minute. Stir in the herbs. 

Spoon the chile mixture over the potatoes and drizzle with the lime juice. Serve straight from the pan, with the clove-scented ketchup on the side. 

START RECIPE

Pan Roasted Salmon with White Bean-Ancho Chile Broth, Cilantro Pesto and Roasted Shallots with Sauteed Kale 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Pan-Roasted Salmon 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Yield: 4 servings. 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Cilantro Pesto:   
2 cups cilantro leaves  
2 tablespoons pumpkin seeds  
2 cloves garlic  
3 tablespoons fresh lime juice  
1/2 cup olive oil  
1/4 cup freshly grated parmesan cheese  
Salt and pepper  
White Bean Broth:  
6 cups fish stock  
2 ancho chiles, soaked, seeded and julienned  
1 cup cooked white beans  
3 shallots, roasted, peeled and sliced thinly  
1 tablespoon honey  
Salt and pepper  
Salmon:  
Four 6 ounce salmon fillets  
Olive oil  
Salt and pepper  
Sauteed Kale:  
1 1/2 pounds young kale, stems and leaves coarsely chopped  
3 tablespoons olive oil   
2 cloves garlic, finely sliced   
1/2 cup vegetable stock or water   
Salt and pepper   
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the cilantro pesto: Combine in a blender and blend until smooth. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

For the white bean broth: Place fish stock in a medium saucepan over high heat and cook until reduced by half. Add the chiles, white beans and shallots and cook for 5 minutes. Add honey. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

For the salmon: Heat a grill pan or saute pan over high heat until almost smoking. Brush the salmon with olive oil on both sides and season with salt and pepper. Saute skin-side down until golden brown, turn the fillets over, reduce heat to medium and continue cooking for 3-4 minutes for medium doneness. 

For the sauteed kale: Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the garlic and cook until soft, but not colored. Raise heat to high, add the stock and kale and toss to combine. Cover and cook for 5 minutes. Remove cover and continue to cook, stirring until all the liquid has evaporated. Season with salt and pepper to taste and add vinegar. 

Copyright 1999 by Bobby Flay. All Rights Reserved. 

START RECIPE

Bananas Foster Milkshake 
11 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Bananas Foster Milkshake 
Total:10 minPrep: 10 min 
Yield: 1 serving 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 overly ripe banana, peeled and cut into chunks  
1/4 cup good quality caramel sauce (recommended: Fran's), plus more for garnish  
Pinch ground cinnamon  
1 tablespoon dark rum, optional  
1/3 cup whole milk  
10 ounces vanilla ice cream  
Whipped cream, for garnish  
Banana slices, for garnish  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
In a blender, combine the banana, caramel sauce, cinnamon, rum, if using, and milk and blend until smooth. Add the ice cream and blend until incorporated. Pour into a tall glass, and garnish with a dollop of whipped cream, a few slices of banana and a drizzle of caramel sauce. Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE

Potato Pancakes with Chunky Granny Smith Applesauce and Cinnamon Creme Fraiche 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Deli-icious Brunch 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Potato Pancakes with Chunky Granny Smith Applesauce and Cinnamon Creme Fraiche 
Total:1 hr 20 minActive: 25 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Pancakes:  
1 small onion, peeled  
1 large baking potato (about 1 pound), peeled  
1/4 cup all-purpose flour  
1 teaspoon kosher salt  
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground pepper  
1 large egg, lightly beaten  
Pinch baking powder  
Canola oil, for frying  
Chunky Granny Smith Applesauce, recipe follows  
Cinnamon Creme Fraiche, recipe follows  
Chunky Granny Smith Applesauce:  
3 to 6 tablespoons granulated sugar (depending on how sweet or tart you want it)  
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon  
5 Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored and cut into large dice  
Cinnamon Creme Fraiche:  
1 cup creme fraiche  
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Pancakes: 
On a box grater, coarsely shred the onion and potato. Transfer to a colander or wrap in a cheesecloth sling, and squeeze as dry as possible. Let stand for 2 minutes, then squeeze dry again. Put the potatoes in a large bowl, add the flour, salt, pepper, baking powder and egg, and gently fold to combine. 

In a large cast-iron skillet, heat 2 tablespoons oil until shimmering. Drop heaping tablespoons of the potatoes into the skillet and flatten them with the back of the spoon. Cook the pancakes over moderately high heat until the edges are golden, 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Flip and cook until golden on the bottom, about 1 minute. Drain on paper towels. Repeat with the remaining potatoes, adding more oil to the skillet as needed. 

Serve the potato pancakes topped with Chunky Granny Smith Applesauce and a small dollop of Cinnamon Creme Fraiche. 

Cook's Note: Reheat the pancakes in a single layer on a cookie sheet in a 400 degree oven until they're crisp again. If you undercooked them a bit or didn't get the browning on them you'd hoped for, you can compensate for this in the oven. 

Chunky Granny Smith Applesauce: 
To a large pot, combine 1 cup water, sugar, cinnamon, lemon zest, and apples. Bring to a boil over medium heat and cook until soft, 8 to 10 minutes. Taste for sweetness and add more sugar if desired. Coarsely mash to a chunky consistency. Let cool to room temperature.: 

Cinnamon Creme Fraiche: 
Whisk together creme fraiche and cinnamon, cover and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes to allow the flavors to meld.: 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Spice-Rubbed Corned Beef with Mustard-Honey-Horseradish Sauce 
7 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
From: Food Network Magazine 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Spice-Rubbed Corned Beef with Mustard-Honey-Horseradish Sauce 
Total:3 hr 50 minPrep: 20 minInactive: 30 minCook: 3 hr 
Yield: 6 to 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 3-pound corned beef brisket (spice packet discarded) 
3 tablespoons ancho chile powder 
2 tablespoons Spanish paprika 
1 tablespoon ground dried oregano 
1 tablespoon ground coriander 
1 tablespoon mustard powder 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1 teaspoon ground chile de arbol 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
Canola oil 
For the sauce: 
1/2 cup dijon mustard 
1/2 cup whole-grain mustard 
1/2 cup clover honey 
1/4 cup prepared horseradish, drained 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Put the corned beef in a large pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over high heat, then cover, reduce the heat to medium low and simmer until tender, 2 1/2 to 3 hours, adding more water if needed to keep the beef submerged. Remove from the water and let cool 30 minutes, then cut into 1-inch-thick slices. 

Meanwhile, make the spice rub: Whisk the chile powder, paprika, oregano, coriander, mustard powder, cumin, chile de arbol and 1 teaspoon each salt and pepper. Set aside. 

Make the sauce: Whisk the dijon and whole-grain mustards, the honey and horseradish in a bowl: season with salt and pepper. Let the sauce sit at room temperature at least 30 minutes to allow the flavors to meld. 

Spread the spice rub on a plate. Dredge one side of each slice of beef in the rub and tap off the excess. Heat a few tablespoons canola oil in a large nonstick saute pan until it begins to shimmer. A few slices at a time, add the beef, rub-side down, and cook until a golden-brown crust has formed, about 2 minutes. Flip the slices and continue cooking another minute or two, adding more oil as needed. Serve with cabbage and the sauce. 

Photograph by Ryan Liebe 

Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay for Food Network Magazine 

START RECIPE

Cinnamon Roll Crepes 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Time to Pull the Curtain on Crepes 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Cinnamon Roll Crepes 
Total:1 hr 15 minActive: 1 hr 
Yield: 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Crepes: 
1 1/2 cups whole milk 
1 cup all-purpose flour  
1 tablespoon granulated sugar  
1/4 teaspoon coarse salt  
4 large eggs  
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled  
Cinnamon Rum Sauce: 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
1/2 cup light brown or light muscovado sugar  
2 tablespoons dark rum  
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
Filling: 
8 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature 
1/4 cup cold heavy cream  
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar, plus more for dusting  
1 teaspoon vanilla extract  
1 teaspoon finely grated orange zest, plus more for the top 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the crepes: Combine the milk, flour, granulated sugar, salt, eggs and 2 tablespoons of the butter in a blender and blend until smooth, about 20 seconds. Let the batter rest at room temperature for at least 15 minutes before using or transfer to a container with a lid and let rest in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. 

For the cinnamon rum sauce: Melt the butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Stir in the brown sugar, rum and cinnamon and cook, stirring occasionally, until the sugar melts. Stir in 2 tablespoons water and cook a few more minutes. Set aside and keep warm. 

For the filling: Combine the cream cheese, cream, confectioners' sugar, vanilla and orange zest in a stand mixer with a whisk attachment and whisk until light and fluffy. 

Heat a 10-inch nonstick skillet over medium heat. Lightly brush with some of the remaining melted butter. Add 3 to 4 tablespoons of the crepe batter and swirl the skillet so the batter completely covers the bottom. Cook until the underside of the crepe is golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes. Loosen the edge of the crepe with a rubber spatula, then with your fingertips, quickly flip. Cook 1 minute more. Slide the crepe out of the skillet and repeat with the remaining batter, coating the skillet with butter as needed. Stack the finished crepes directly on top of each other. 

Place a crepe on a flat surface with the browner side down. Smear 3 to 4 tablespoons filling across the crepe slightly off center and a few inches from the bottom (facing you), fold the bottom up over the filling and then roll the crepe tightly. Place seam-side down on a plate or platter and repeat with the remaining crepes and filling. Spoon the sauce over the crepes, dust with confectioners' sugar and scatter some orange zest on top. Serve immediately. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Steak Fries with Citrus-Thyme Aioli 
10 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Grill It! with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Burgerlicious 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Grilled Steak Fries with Citrus-Thyme Aioli  
Steak Fries With Citrus Aioli (01:43) 
Total:1 hr 5 minPrep: 15 minInactive: 30 minCook: 20 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 cup mayonnaise 
2 cloves garlic, smashed to a paste 
1 teaspoon finely grated orange zest 
1/2 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest, Meyer lemons, preferred 
1 1/2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh thyme leaves 
1/4 teaspoon smoked paprika 
1 tablespoon honey 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
6 russet potatoes, scrubbed 
1/4 cup canola oil 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

In a small bowl, whisk together the mayonnaise, garlic, zests, thyme, paprika, honey and season with salt and pepper, to taste. Cover and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving. 

Put the potatoes in a pot of cold water, add 2 tablespoons of salt and cook over medium heat until the potatoes are tender, but still firm, about 10 minutes. Drain, let cool and cut each potato lengthwise into 8 slices. 

Heat the grill to medium. Brush the potatoes with the oil and season with salt and pepper, to taste. Grill until golden brown and cooked through, about 2 to 3 minutes per side. Transfer to a serving platter or bowl and serve with the mayonnaise. 

START RECIPE

Roasted Corn Guacamole with Cumin Scented Tortilla Chips (Southwest Snack) 
2 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Roasted Corn Guacamole with Cumin Scented Tortilla Chips (Southwest Snack)  
Bobby's Take on Chips and Dip (04:37) 
Total:30 minPrep: 20 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Cumin Scented Tortilla Chips:  
6 white corn tortillas 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
2 tablespoons ground cumin 
Roasted Corn Guacamole: 
3 avocados, peeled, seeded and coarsely chopped 
2 ears corn, grilled and kernels removed 
1 jalapeno, finely chopped 
1/2 red onion, finely chopped 
1/4 cup fresh cilantro leaves, coarsely chopped 
1/4 cup fresh lime juice 
2 tablespoons creme fraiche 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

For the tortilla chips: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Brush the tortillas with the oil on both sides and season one side with salt, pepper and cumin. Place on a baking sheet and bake until lightly golden brown, about 10 minutes. When cool enough to handle, cut into eighths or break into chip-size pieces. 

For the guacamole: Combine the avocados, corn, jalapeno, onions, cilantro, lime juice and creme fraiche in a bowl and mix well. Season with salt and pepper. Serve with the cumin scented tortilla chips. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Snapper Vera Cruz 
17 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Grilled Snapper Veracruz 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Grilled Snapper Vera Cruz 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
 Info  
HEALTHY 
Ingredients 
4 snapper fillets, 6 ounces each 2 tablespoons olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 large onion, finely sliced 
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1/4 cup dry white wine 
2 large tomatoes, chopped 
1/4 cup green olives, pitted and chopped 
2 tablespoons capers, drained 
1 serrano pepper, finely chopped 
1/2 teaspoon sugar 
1 bay leaf 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Brush the fish with olive oil, season with salt and pepper and grill for 2 minutes on each side. Remove and cover. 

Heat olive oil in a non-corrosive saute pan over medium-high heat, add onions and garlic and cook until soft. Add wine and reduce. Add tomatoes, green olives, capers and pepper, sugar and bay leaf and bring to a boil and cook until thickened. Reduce heat, add grilled fish and cook for 2 minutes. 

START RECIPE

Pineapple Sunrise 
2 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: First Date Grilling 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:5 minPrep: 5 min 
Yield: 6 to 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
6 ounces white tequila 
12 ounces pineapple juice 
2 ounces lime juice 
2 teaspoons grenadine 
Cracked ice 
Pineapple slices for garnish 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Combine liquid (in two batches) in a cocktail shaker with cracked ice and shake well. Strain into glasses and garnish with pineapple. 

START RECIPE

Wild Mushroom and Mizuna Salad with White Truffle Vinaigrette and Sage 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Cruise to Key West 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 portobello mushrooms, stems removed, cleaned with a brush and cut into 1/4-inch slices 
12 chanterelle mushrooms, cleaned with a soft brush 
2 tablespoons minced garlic 
Salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste 
4 cups mizuna greens, rinsed well and dried 
White Truffle Vinaigrette, recipe follows 
1/4 cup sage leaves, cut into chiffonade 
WHITE TRUFFLE VINAIGRETTE 
2 tablespoons chopped shallots 
1/4 cup balsamic vinegar 
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 
3/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 
1 tablespoon white truffle oil 
Salt, to taste 
Pepper, to taste 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Heat oil in large pan over high heat until almost smoking. Add mushrooms and cook until golden brown. Add garlic and cook 1 minute. Divide mizuna and mushrooms among 4 plates. Drizzle with the White Truffle Vinaigrette and sprinkle with sage. 

WHITE TRUFFLE VINAIGRETTE 
Place shallots, vinegar and mustard in a blender and blend until smooth. With the motor running add olive oil and blend until emulsified. Add truffle oil, salt and pepper and blend for 2 seconds more. 

START RECIPE

Guava Glazed Chicken Thighs 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Cruise to Key West 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 cup guava nectar 
2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 red onion, chopped fine 
1 tablespoon ancho puree 
1 tablespoon honey 
Salt, to taste 
Pepper, to taste 
6-inch wooden skewers 
2 pounds boneless chicken thighs 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Combine guava, vinegar, garlic, onion, ancho and honey in a small saucepan and reduce to 1/2 cup. Place 2 skewers through each thigh and season with salt and pepper. Brush with glaze and grill 4 minutes per side. Brush with glaze several times while on grill. Cut each thigh in half and serve. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Chicken Cordon Bleu 
40 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Grill It! with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Finger Lickin' Chicken 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Grilled Chicken Cordon Bleu  
Grilled Chicken Cordon Bleu (03:15) 
Total:20 minPrep: 10 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
 Info  
HEALTHY 
Ingredients 
4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts, pounded thin 
Olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 pound triple creme cheese (recommended: Red Hawk) or brie, thinly sliced 
2 lemons, halved 
8 paper thin slices prosciutto 
1/4 pound baby arugula 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Heat the grill to high. 

Brush the chicken on both sides with oil and season with salt and pepper, to taste. Grill until slightly charred on both sides and just cooked through, about 2 minutes per side. Put a few slices of cheese on each breast, close the cover and let it melt slightly, about 40 seconds. Brush the cut side of lemons with oil and grill, cut side down until golden brown and slightly charred, about 45 seconds. 

Put the chicken on large serving plates, top each breast with 2 slices of prosciutto and some arugula. Squeeze the grilled lemon on top and drizzle with olive oil. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Pork Chops Filled with Sundried Cranberries 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:2 hr 30 minPrep: 1 hr 30 minCook: 1 hr 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Cranberry Filled Pork Tenderloin: 
4 pork chops, 1-inch thick 
Salt and freshly pepper 
Cranberry filling, recipe follows 
Cranberry sauce, recipe follows 
Olive oil 
Garnish: 
Dried cranberries 
Toasted pine nuts 
Sundried Cranberry Filling: 
1 cup sundried cranberries 
2 tablespoons pinenuts, toasted 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 
1 tablespoon brown sugar 
1 teaspoon cascabel chile powder 
Salt 
Chicken-Cranberry Sauce: 
4 cups homemade chicken stock 
1/4 cup white wine 
1/4 cup red wine 
1/4 cup cranberry juice 
1 tablespoon brown sugar 
1 teaspoon black peppercorns 
1 tablespoon chipotle puree 
Salt 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Garnish: 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Cut a pocket into the side of each pork chop going 3/4 of the way through. Season chop with salt and pepper and stuff the pocket with the cranberry filling. 

Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a medium oven-proof saute pan over high heat. Add the pork chops and sear on both sides. Add 1 cup chicken cranberry sauce. Place the pan in the oven and roast until the meat is firm to the touch, about 8 to 10 minutes. Spoon the chicken-cranberry sauce on a plate and top with pork chops. Garnish with dried cranberries and toasted pine nuts. 

Sundried Cranberry Filling: 
Place the cranberries in a medium bowl and cover with boiling water, let sit 30 minutes to rehydrate. Drain and reserve soaking liquid. Place cranberries and remaining ingredients in a food processor with a 1/4 cup of the soaking liquid and process until smooth. Pass through a fina strainer. Season with salt. 

Chicken-Cranberry Sauce: 
Place chicken stock in a nonreactive medium saucepan over high heat and cook until reduced to 2 cups. Add, wines, cranberry juice, brown sugar, peppercorns and chipotle puree and continue cooking until thickened to a sauce consistency. Season with salt. 

Copyright 1999 by Bobby Flay. All Rights Reserved. 

START RECIPE

Throwdown Cuban Sandwich with Homemade Pickles 
8 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Cuban Sandwich 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Throwdown Cuban Sandwich with Homemade Pickles  
Cuban Sandwich Throwdown (04:02) 
Yield: 8 to 10 servings 
Ingredients 
Pork: 
1 (4 to 5 pound) bone-in pork shoulder, excess fat trimmed 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
Canola oil 
3 cups chicken stock 
1 cup fresh orange juice 
1/2 cup fresh lime juice 
2 tablespoons aged sherry vinegar 
1 head garlic, cloves removed and peeled 
2 medium Spanish onions, peeled and coarsely chopped 
2 bay leaves 
Clover Honey 
Handfull fresh oregano, stems with leaves 
Homemade Pickles: 
3 Kirby cucumbers, sliced into 1/8-inch thick slices 
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 
3/4 cup packed coarsely chopped fresh dill 
2-3 tablespoons sugar 
2 garlic cloves, coarsely chopped 
2 teaspoons kosher salt 
3/4 teaspoon dill seeds 
1/2 teaspoon whole mustard seeds 
1/2 teaspoon coriander seeds 
Roasted Garlic-Dijon Aioli: 
1 cup prepared mayonnaise 
3 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
5 cloves roasted garlic, pureed 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
For Sandwiches: 
8 to 10 Cuban breads, sliced 3/4 of way through 
Roasted Garlic-Dijon Aioli 
Shredded pork 
Homemade Pickles 
1 pound thinly sliced Swiss cheese 
1 pound thinly sliced good-quality ham 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Pork: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Season the pork with salt, pepper and cumin. Heat a few tablespoons of oil in a large Dutch oven until it begins to shimmer. Add the pork and cook until golden brown on all sides. 

Add the stock, juices, vinegar, garlic, onions, bay leaves and oregano, bring to a simmer, cover and transfer to the oven. Braise until fork tender (between 180 and 190 degrees F), about 1 1/2 hour to 2 hours. Remove from the oven, transfer pork to a platter and let rest 15 minutes before slicing or shredding. 

Strain the braising liquid into a medium pan, bring to a boil and let reduced slightly, adding honey and salt and pepper if needed. Toss some of the braising liquid with the shredded pork to moisten. 

Homemade Pickles: Put the sliced cucumber in a medium bowl (which has a fitted lid). 

Combine 1 cup of water, the vinegar, dill, sugar, garlic, salt, dill, mustard and coriander seeds in a small saucepan over high heat and bring to a boil. Cook until the sugar and salt is dissolved. Remove from the heat and taste for tartness, add more sugar if too sour and let cool to room temperature. 

Pour the cooled liquid over the cucumbers, cover and refrigerate for at least 4 hours and up to 48 hours, stirring the mixture at least once. 

Roasted Garlic-Dijon Aioli: Whisk together mayonnaise, mustard and garlic and season with salt and pepper. Cover and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before using to allow the flavors to meld. 

For Sandwiches: Spread both cut sides of the bread with a tablespoon or so of aioli. Add the pork, a few slices ham, and a generous layer of pickles. Top with a few slices cheese. 

Press the sandwiches in a hot panini grill until outside is toasty and cheese is melted. 

START RECIPE

Mango Jicama Slaw 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Mango: Pork Chops: Oysters 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Mango Jicama Slaw  
Mango Jicama Slaw (01:29) 
Yield: 4 servings 
Ingredients 
1 mango, julienned 
1/2 cup carrots, julienned 
1 pound jicama, peeled and julienned 
1 red bell pepper, seeded and julienned 
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 
1/2 cup fresh lime juice 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Combine all ingredients and refrigerate until serving. 

START RECIPE

PREV RECIPENEXT RECIPE 
Robiolo Pizza 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Food Network Specials 
Episode: Throwdown with Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:2 hr 5 minPrep: 20 minInactive: 1 hr 35 minCook: 10 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Ingredients 
1 (1/4-ounce) package active dry yeast (2 1/4 teaspoons) 
3/4 cup warm water (105 to 115 degrees F) 
1 3/4 to 2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour plus additional for kneading and dredging 
Salt and pepper 
2 teaspoons olive oil, plus 1 teaspoon for greasing the bowl 
12 ounces robiolo cheese, at room temperature 
8 ounces buffalo mozzarella, thinly sliced 
White truffle oil 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Whisk together the yeast and 1/4 cup of the water in a small bowl and let sit for 5 minutes to proof. Place 1 3/4 cups of the flour in a large bowl with 1 1/2 teaspoons salt. Add the yeast mixture, the remaining water and oil and stir until combined. Transfer the dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth. Grease a large bowl with the remaining oil, add the dough and turn to coat. Cover and place in a warm place until doubled in volume, about 1 to 1 1/2 hours. 

Preheat the grill to high. Once the dough has risen, divide it in half, and then divide each half into 2 balls. Roll each ball into an 8-inch circle. Brush with oil and grill on both sides until golden brown. Remove from grill and slice each in half horizontally. 

Spread bottom halves of pizza with 3 ounces of the robiolo cheese and 2 ounces of the mozzarella. Season with salt and pepper. Place the tops on and heat on the grill for 30 seconds. Remove from the grill and drizzle each pizza top with a few teaspoons of white truffle oil. Slice into wedges and serve immediately 

START RECIPE

Grilled Seafood Salad Nicoise 
6 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Grilled Seafood Salad Nicoise 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:50 minPrep: 20 minCook: 30 min 
Yield: Yield: 8 servings 
Ingredients 
Vinaigrette: 
1/2 cup red wine vinegar 
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 
1 teaspoon anchovy paste 
2 cloves garlic, smashed to a paste 
1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh thyme 
1/2 cup olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
Seafood: 
1 pound tuna steak, cut into 8 pieces 
12 jumbo shrimp, shelled and deveined 
12 large sea scallops 
1/4 cup olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
Vegetables: 
2 red bell peppers, quartered 
1 yellow squash, cut into 1/4-inch thick slices 
Olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
1/2 pint each red and yellow cherry tomatoes, sliced in half 
3/4 pound haricots verts, cooked al dente 
Red leaf lettuce 
1/2 cup Nicoise olives, pitted 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Vinaigrette: Whisk all the ingredients together, except oil, until smooth. Slowly drizzle in the olive oil and whisk until combined. Season with salt and pepper to taste.: 

Seafood: Brush the tuna, shrimp and scallops with the olive oil and season with salt and pepper to taste. Grill the tuna to rare, grill the shrimp and sea scallops until just cooked through, about 2 to 3 minutes per side.: 

Vegetables: Preheat grill. Brush peppers and squash with oil and season with salt and pepper to taste. Grill each for 5 to 6 minutes on each side, until just cooked through. 

Place the green beans and tomatoes in bowls. Toss each with 2 tablespoons of the vinaigrette and season with salt and pepper to taste. 

Line 8 plates with the red leaf lettuce. On each plate arrange 2 scallops, 3 shrimp and 1 piece of the tuna. Divide the squash, beans, roasted pepper, tomatoes and olives among the plates. Drizzle the remaining dressing over the salad. 

START RECIPE

Saffron Roasted Vegetable Couscous 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Yield: 4 servings 
Ingredients 
2 red peppers, cut into 1-inch dice 
1 yellow squash, cut into 1-inch dice 
1 zucchini, cut into 1-inch dice 
1/4 pound haricots verts, cut on the bias into 1-inch pieces 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
3 cups vegetable stock 
Pinch saffron 
1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups couscous 
1/4 cup coarsely chopped flat leaf parsley 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
SAFFRON ROASTED VEGETABLE COUSCOUS Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place the vegetables in a medium baking dish, toss with the olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Roast for 8 to 10 minutes until vegetables are just cooked through. Bring vegetable stock, saffron and 1 teaspoon of salt to a boil in a medium saucepan, let boil for 5 minutes, until saffron blooms and colors the stock. Add the couscous, stir, cover and reduce heat to low. Cook until all liquid is absorbed, 8 to 10 minutes. Place couscous in a large bowl, add the roasted vegetables and parsley and season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve with salmon and ancho chile-ginger sauce. Garnish with diced red pepper and cilantro.: 

Copyright 1999 Bobby Flay. All Rights Reserved. 

START RECIPE

Oatmeal Pancakes with Maple-Glazed Roasted Apples 
9 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Bobby Flay Fit 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Oatmeal Pancakes with Maple-Glazed Roasted Apples 
Total:1 hr 35 minPrep: 20 minInactive: 30 minCook: 45 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
 Info  
HEALTHY 
Ingredients 
Roasted Apples: 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
2 tablespoons maple syrup, plus more for serving, optional 
3 large Jonagold or Gala apples (or a combination of both), peeled, cored and cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices 
Oatmeal Pancakes: 
1 1/2 cups rolled oats 
1 cup buttermilk 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
4 eggs 
1 1/2 cups milk 
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
Canola oil or melted butter 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
For the apples: Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. In a large bowl, toss the apples with the cinnamon, nutmeg and maple syrup. Place the apples in a 9-inch glass baking dish, pour the syrup mixture over and roast until caramelized and soft, stirring a few times, about 30 minutes. 

For the pancakes: Combine the oats and buttermilk in a medium bowl and let sit for at least 15 minutes and up to 30 minutes. 

Stir together the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg in a large bowl until combined. 

Whisk together the eggs, milk, maple syrup and vanilla until smooth, and then stir in the oat mixture. Add the wet mixture to the dry mixture and mix until just combined (can be lumpy). Cover and let rest for 15 minutes. 

Place a nonstick griddle or nonstick frying pan over medium heat and brush with oil or melted butter. Pour the batter in scant 1/4 cup portions onto the griddle and cook until pancakes are browned on the bottom and the edges begin to look dry, about 2 minutes. Carefully turn over with a spatula and cook another 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Repeat. Serve immediately topped with the roasted apples and more maple syrup if desired. 

Recipe courtesy Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Frothy Hot White Chocolate 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Chocolate Lovers Delight 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Frothy Hot White Chocolate 
Total:10 minActive: 5 min 
Yield: 2 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 1/2 cups whole or skim milk (skim will froth better) 
1/2 vanilla bean, seeds scraped 
3 ounces best quality white chocolate, such as Valrhona, Lindt or Callebaut, coarsely chopped 
Lightly whipped cream 
Cocoa powder 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Combine the milk, vanilla bean and vanilla seeds in a saucepan and bring to a simmer. Remove the vanilla bean. Add the hot milk to the blender and carefully blend until frothy. Add the white chocolate to the blender and blend until the chocolate is melted. Divide between 2 mugs, top with a dollop of whipped cream and sprinkle with cocoa powder. 



When blending hot liquid, first let it cool for five minutes or so, then transfer it to a blender, filling only halfway. Put the lid on, leaving one corner open. Cover the lid with a kitchen towel to catch splatters, and pulse until smooth. 


Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 

START RECIPE

Dark and Stormy 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Barbecue Addiction: Bobby's Basics 
Episode: Tropical Barbecue 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Dark and Stormy 
Total:4 hr 10 minActive: 10 min 
Yield: 8 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
8 cups (64 ounces) very cold ginger beer 
2 cups dark rum  
1/4 cup fresh lime juice  
1/4 cup simple syrup  
2 limes, thinly sliced  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Take 2 cups of the ginger beer and fill an ice cube tray with it. Place in the freezer until firm. 

Combine the remaining 6 cups ginger beer, the rum, lime juice, simple syrup and sliced limes in a pitcher: cover and refrigerate until cold. Add the ice cubes just before serving in tall glasses. 

START RECIPE

Apricot Glazed Lamb Chops with Pistachio and Sumac 
6 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Barbecue Addiction: Bobby's Basics 
Episode: Middle Eastern Supreme Barbecue 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Apricot Glazed Lamb Chops with Pistachio and Sumac  
Apricot-Glazed Lamb Chops (03:16) 
Total:16 minPrep: 10 minCook: 6 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
3/4 cup apricot jam 
2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar 
2 tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh mint 
2 tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh parsley, plus whole leaves for garnish 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Eight 4 to 5-ounce lamb porterhouse chops 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
1/4 cup shelled, lightly toasted pistachios, coarsely chopped 
1 teaspoon ground sumac 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Preheat a charcoal grill to high heat using the direct heat method. 

Whisk together the jam, vinegar, mint, parsley and season with salt and pepper. 

Brush the chops with oil on both sides and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put the chops on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, about 3 minutes. Flip over, brush with glaze and continue cooking until cooked to medium-rare doneness, about 3 minutes longer, brushing with more of the glaze. 

Remove to a platter and sprinkle with the pistachios, sumac and parsley leaves. 

START RECIPE

Grilled Chicken, New Potato and Roasted Garlic Quesadilla 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Grilled Snapper Veracruz 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Yield: 4 appetizer portions 
Ingredients 
2 large boneless chicken breasts 
Olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
8 small new potatoes, cut in half 
Twelve 6-inch flour tortillas 
1 cup Monterey Jack cheese, finely grated 
1 cup white Cheddar cheese, finely grated 
1 head roasted garlic 
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh thyme 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Preheat grill. Brush chicken with olive oil and season with salt and pepper to taste. Grill for 5 minutes on each side or until cooked through, remove and let rest. Toss potatoes in olive oil and season with salt and pepper to taste. Grill cut side down until golden brown, turn over and continue grilling until cooked through. 

Place 8 tortillas on a flat surface. Divide both cheeses among the tortillas. Slice chicken on the bias into 1/4-inch thick slices. Cut each potato half in half. Divide the chicken, potatoes, garlic and thyme among the 8 tortillas. Stack tortillas to make four. Top the four tortillas with the remaining four tortillas. Brush the top with olive oil and season with salt and pepper to taste. Grill, oil side down until golden brown. Carefully flip over and continue grilling until golden brown and the cheese has melted. 

START RECIPE

Toasted Israeli Couscous with Vegetables and Lemon-Balsamic Vinaigrette 
37 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Boy Meets Grill 
Episode: Mediterranean 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Toasted Israeli Couscous with Vegetables and Lemon-Balsamic Vinaigrette 
Total:1 hr 30 minPrep: 30 minInactive: 30 minCook: 30 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Intermediate 
Ingredients 
1/2 pound Israeli couscous 
Salt 
12 spears asparagus, grilled and cut into 1/4-inch pieces 
1 zucchini, halved, grilled and cut into 1-inch pieces 
1 yellow squash, halved, grilled and cut into 1-inch pieces 
2 large red peppers, grilled, peeled and diced into bite-size pieces 
1/2 cup kalamata olives, pitted and chopped 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil leaves 
Freshly ground black pepper 
Lemon-Balsamic Vinaigrette, recipe follows 
Lemon-Balsamic Vinaigrette: 
1 small shallot, minced 
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
1 teaspoon lemon zest 
3 tablespoons aged balsamic vinegar 
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Heat large saute pan on grates of the grill over medium heat. Add couscous and toast until lightly golden brown. 

Bring 6 cups of water to a boil over high heat, add 1 tablespoon salt and toasted couscous and cook until al dente. Drain well and place in a large bowl. Add grilled vegetables, olives, basil, and vinaigrette and toss until combined: season with salt and pepper. Let sit at room temperature for 30 minutes before serving or cover and refrigerate. 

Lemon-Balsamic Vinaigrette: 
Whisk shallot, juice, zest, vinegars, and salt and pepper together in a small bowl. Slowly whisk in oil until emulsified. 

START RECIPE

Carrot Slaw 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Barbecue Addiction: Bobby's Basics 
Episode: Bobbyӳ Basics: Backyard Mediterranean 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:45 minActive: 15 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice 
2 tablespoons white wine vinegar  
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard  
Pinch crushed red pepper flakes  
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper  
3 tablespoons olive oil  
3 large carrots, peeled and shredded  
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
In a small bowl, whisk together the lemon juice, vinegar, mustard, red pepper flakes and some salt and pepper until smooth. Whisk in the olive oil until completely blended. Toss the shredded carrots with the dressing in a large bowl. Taste and season with more salt or pepper as needed. Add the parsley and toss. Chill 30 minutes before serving. 

START RECIPE

Cucumber Lime Martini 
3 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Brunch @ Bobby's 
Episode: Ladies Who Brunch 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Cucumber Lime Martini 
Total:2 hr 20 minActive: 20 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 English cucumber 
1 teaspoon grated lime zest plus 1 cup fresh lime juice  
3/4 to 1 cup chilled Simple Syrup, recipe follows 
Handful of fresh mint leaves, plus more for garnish  
2 tablespoons fresh dill fronds, plus more for garnish  
4 shots cold vodka or gin  
Simple Syrup: 
1 cup sugar 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Slice 4 very thin slices from the cucumber, then peel, seed and coarsely chop the rest. Combine the lime juice, chopped cucumber, some Simple Syrup and 2 cups cold water in a blender and blend until smooth. Pour into a pitcher and stir in the lime zest, mint and dill. Cover and refrigerate until very cold, at least 2 hours. Keep the cucumber slices covered and chilled. 

Put some ice, a shot of vodka and some of the lime mixture in a cocktail shaker and shake for 10 seconds. Strain into a martini glass and garnish with a cucumber slice, some mint and dill. Repeat to make 3 more martinis. 

Simple Syrup: 
Bring the sugar and 1 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan over medium high heat. When the sugar is completely dissolved, remove the saucepan from the heat and cool the syrup to room temperature. Refrigerate, covered, for up to 1 week. 

START RECIPE

Lamb, Roasted Shallot and Chorizo Skewers with Rioja Vinaigrette 
0 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 bottle Rioja wine 
1/4 cup red vinegar 
2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
1 teaspoon honey 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground pepper 
1 head garlic, peeled and crushed 
1 cup olive oil 
4 rosemary sprigs 
2 pound lamb loin, cut into 1-inch pieces 
1/2 pound chorizo, sliced 1/4-inch thick 
16 small shallots, roasted 
8 bamboo skewers, soaked in water for 2 hours 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
In a medium stainless steel saucepan reduce the wine to 1/4 cup. Place the syrup in a blender and add the vinegar, mustard, and honey and blend until combined. With the motor running slowly add the olive oil and blend until emulsified. Season with salt and pepper to taste. In a large bowl, combine the garlic, olive oil, rosemary and lamb and marinate for 4 to 6 hours in the refrigerator. Prepare the grill. Thread the lamb cubes, chorizo and roasted shallots on the skewers and season with salt and pepper to taste. Grill for 2 to 3 minutes on each side for medium-rare doneness. Arrange on platter and drizzle with vinaigrette. 

START RECIPE

PREV RECIPENEXT RECIPE 
Minted Lemonade 
8 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay 
Show: Hot off the Grill with Bobby Flay 
Episode: Flatbreads 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Total:20 minPrep: 20 min 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 cups sugar 
6 cups water 
2 cups fresh lemon juice 
1/2 cup mint leaves 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
To make simple syrup: Place 2 cups sugar and 2 cups water in a saucepan and bring to a boil. Stir until sugar is dissolved and let cool. Place lemon juice in a large pitcher, add remaining 4 cups water and 1 cup of the simple syrup or more to taste. Stir in mint leaves and refrigerate for 1 hour. Serve over ice. 

START RECIPE

Pantry Pasta 
4 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: Dining on A Dime 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Pantry Pasta 
Total:30 minActive: 30 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Kosher salt 
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
4 strips bacon, chopped  
1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes  
1 clove garlic, thinly sliced 
1 shallot, thinly sliced 
One 15-ounce can cannellini beans, drained and rinsed  
One 14-ounce can artichokes hearts, drained and thinly sliced 
Freshly ground black pepper 
1 pound orecchiette  
1/3 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese 
2 tablespoons butter  
3 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. 

In a large saute pan over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil. Add the bacon and cook until it just starts to get a little crispy, about 5 minutes. Add the crushed red pepper, garlic and shallot and cook, stirring, until tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the beans and artichokes to the pan and cook for another 2 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. 

Meanwhile, cook the orecchiette in the boiling water for the amount of time specified on the box, minus 2 minutes. Reserve 3/4 cup of the pasta water, then drain the pasta. 

Add the pasta to the pan with the artichokes and beans and toss over medium heat. Add the pasta water and continue to cook until the pasta achieves an al dente texture and the sauce is coating the pasta. Remove from the heat and add half of the Parmesan. Mix in the butter and half of the parsley. Season with more salt and pepper. Transfer to large serving bowl and garnish with the remaining Parmesan, parsley and 2 tablespoons olive oil. 

START RECIPE

Orange Bourbon Iced Tea 
1 Review 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: Dining on A Dime 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Orange Bourbon Iced Tea 
Total:25 minActive: 10 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
24 ounces brewed orange pekoe tea, chilled 
6 ounces bourbon  
4 ounces Clover Honey Syrup, recipe follows 
4 ounces fresh orange juice plus orange peels, for garnish 
Clover Honey Syrup: 
1 cup clover honey 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Add the tea, bourbon, Clover Honey Syrup and orange juice to a pitcher and stir. Pour over ice in individual glasses. 

Clover Honey Syrup: 
Combine the honey and 1 cup water in a small saucepan and bring to a boil. Cook, stirring, until the honey dissolves. Remove from the heat and let cool completely. Keep covered in the refrigerator up to 1 month. 

START RECIPE

Filipino Adobo Chicken 
25 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: Savor the Savings 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Filipino Adobo Chicken  
4 videos | Filipino Adobo Chicken (03:24) 
Total:8 hr 45 minActive: 25 min 
Yield: 4 servings 
Level: Easy 
 

Filipino Adobo Chicken (03:24) 

How To: Grill Chicken (02:49) 

All About Chicken (03:21) 

How to Debone a Chicken (02:21) 
Ingredients 
8 bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs 
1/4 cup low-sodium soy sauce  
1/4 cup distilled vinegar  
2 tablespoons brown sugar  
1 tablespoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 habanero, thinly sliced  
1 tablespoon olive oil  
2 cups thinly sliced onions 
2 cloves garlic, thinly sliced 
2 bay leaves  
1 cup fresh parsley, finely chopped  
4 cups steamed jasmine rice  
4 lime wedges  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Combine the chicken with the soy sauce, vinegar, sugar, black pepper and habanero in a resealable plastic bag. Marinate overnight, refrigerated. 

Remove the chicken from the bag and pat dry (reserve the marinade). 

Heat a Dutch oven over medium-high heat and add the olive oil. Add the chicken skin-side down and cook until brown, about 4 minutes. Remove the chicken and set aside. Add the onion and garlic and cook until the onions soften and are slightly translucent, about 5 minutes. Strain the marinade and add it to the Dutch oven along with 4 cups water. Return the chicken to the pan and bring to a slow simmer. Add the bay leaves and cook until the chicken is tender and the sauce has reduced, about 20 minutes. Finish with the fresh parsley. 

Serve with jasmine rice and lime wedges. 

START RECIPE

Classic Gin Gimlet 
4 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: Family Traditions 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Classic Gin Gimlet 
Total:5 minActive: 5 min 
Yield: 1 drink 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
2 ounces gin 
3/4 ounce fresh lime juice  
3/4 ounce simple syrup  
Cucumber wheel or lime wedge, for garnish 
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
Fill a cocktail shaker with ice and pour in the gin, lime juice and simple syrup. Stir vigorously with a long cocktail spoon until very cold. 

Strain into a chilled coupe or martini glass, or strain over a rocks glass filled with ice, depending on preference. Garnish with the cucumber wheel and serve immediately. 

Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 

START RECIPE

Frozen Strawberry Daiquiri 
5 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: Recipes for Success 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Frozen Strawberry Daiquiri  
GZ's Strawberry Daiquiri (03:33) 
Total:5 minActive: 5 min 
Yield: 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
One 12-ounce bag frozen strawberries 
6 ounces light rum  
4 ounces lime juice  
5 tablespoons sugar  
6 fresh strawberry slices, for garnish  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

In a blender, combine the frozen strawberries, rum, lime juice and sugar. Blend until smooth and divide among 6 highball or hurricane-style glasses. Garnish each glass with a strawberry slice and serve immediately. 

START RECIPE

Spaghetti Aglio e Olio 
22 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: Back to School Menu 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Spaghetti Aglio e Olio  
Spaghetti Aglio e Olio (04:03) 
Total:15 minActive: 15 min 
Yield: 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Kosher salt  
1 pound dried spaghetti   
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for finishing   
1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes   
4 cloves garlic, thinly sliced  
1/2 cup rough-chopped fresh parsley   
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil, add the pasta and cook, stirring after 1 minute, until about three-quarters of the way done. 

Meanwhile, heat the olive oil in a large saute pan over medium heat. Add the red pepper flakes and garlic and cook until just beginning to turn golden brown, then add the parsley. Add a ladle of the pasta water to stop the cooking process and allow the flavors to combine. 

When the pasta is three-quarters of the way cooked, remove it from the water and add it to the saute pan. Add more pasta water as necessary to finish cooking the pasta, letting the liquid reduce as the pasta finishes to form a sauce. 

Season with salt if desired and transfer to a large serving dish. Drizzle with more olive oil and serve. 

START RECIPE

Tequila Sunrise 
4 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: Backyard Cookout 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Tequila Sunrise 
Total:5 minActive: 5 min 
Yield: 1 serving 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
1 1/2 ounces tequila 
3/4 cup orange juice  
3/4 ounce grenadine syrup  
Orange slice, for garnish  
High-quality maraschino cherry, such as Luxardo, for garnish  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
In a highball glass filled with ice, pour in the tequila and orange juice. Slowly pour the grenadine into the glass over the back of a spoon or by drizzling it down the side of the glass, allowing it to settle at the bottom. Garnish with an orange slice and maraschino cherry. 

START RECIPE

Bourbon Smash 
5 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: The Kitchen Helpline 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Bourbon Smash  
Classic Bourbon Smash Cocktail (01:49) 
Total:5 minActive: 5 min 
Yield: 1 drink 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
3/4 ounce simple syrup  
8 fresh mint leaves, plus 1 sprig, for garnish   
3 lemon wedges   
2 ounces bourbon   
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Put the simple syrup, mint leaves and lemon wedges into a cocktail shaker and muddle them until the lemons are broken down. Add the bourbon and fill the shaker with ice: using a long cocktail spoon, stir vigorously until very cold. 

Fill a rocks glass with ice and use a fine strainer to strain the drink into the glass. Put the mint sprig in the palm of one hand and gently smack it with the fingers of your other hand (this releases the oils and fragrance). Garnish the drink with the sprig and serve. 

START RECIPE

Italian Chicken Pasta Salad 
32 Reviews 
	
Recipe courtesy of Geoffrey Zakarian 
Show: The Kitchen 
Episode: Welcome to The Kitchen 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT 
 
 
 
Italian Chicken Pasta Salad  
Rotisserie Chicken Pasta Salad (03:57) 
Total:55 minActive: 25 min 
Yield: 4 to 6 servings 
Level: Easy 
Ingredients 
Kosher salt 
3 cups dried elbow macaroni  
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil  
1 cup cubed rotisserie chicken  
1 cup diced English cucumber (about 1/3 cucumber)  
1 cup halved cherry tomatoes  
1/2 cup chopped pitted Nicoise olives  
1/2 cup chopped roasted red peppers (about 1 whole)  
1/2 cup 1/4-inch diced hard salami (about 4 ounces)  
1/4 cup diced red onion (about 1/2 small)  
1/4 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 
4 ounces ricotta salata, grated, or crumbled feta cheese 
1/3 cup red wine vinegar  
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST 
Directions 
 how to make this recipe. 

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the macaroni and cook until al dente, according to the package directions. Drain in a colander, rinse with cold water and shake until very dry. Transfer the pasta to a large mixing bowl, drizzle 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over it and toss well to coat. 

Add the chicken, cucumber, tomatoes, olives, peppers, salami, onions and parsley. Season with salt and toss well to combine. 

In a small bowl, whisk together the vinegar and remaining 1/2 cup olive oil: pour it over the salad and toss well. Taste and adjust the seasoning if necessary. For best flavor, let the salad stand at room temperature for about 30 minutes before serving. 


START RECIPE

Breakfast Nachos 
July 4, 2012 *	by joythebaker *	157 Comments 
IMG_9434 

Just let this happen. 

We really just need to… we really need to just let this happen. 

Put an egg on absolutely anything and call it breakfast.  That means that putting an egg on top of this melty mixture of warm corn chips, cheese, black beans, fresh corn and salsa is totally a legit breakfast. 

It’s like a breakfast burrito, but more crunchy.  It’s like breakfast tacos, but more crunchy.  It’s like eggs over easy, on top of a crazy amount of crunchy chips.  I promise that this breakfast will inspire at least 14 minutes of absolute breakfast table silence… aside from the crunching (you totally knew I was going to say that). 


IMG_9403 

You don’t need me to tell you how to make nachos.  You know that you pretty much have this one covered. 

I used chips (naturally), drained black beans, shredded cheese, some leftover shredded beef, and an ear of corn. 

Slice the corn from the cob (getting it all over your kitchen counter… it’s just the way things go).  Grab the salsa… let’s do this! 

IMG_9413 

Pile everything delicious onto the chips.  It’s art. 

I cook the eggs separately, and save the fresh avocado and salsa for topping. 

What’s that?  You want sour cream?  Well, why not!  Go for it! 

IMG_9424 

Fried eggs, cooked up in a skillet, top these fresh-from-the-oven nachos.  Throw on the salsa, avocado, and anything else that makes you happy.  You might consider hot sauce, green onions, or pickled jalapeno.  Don’t let em get cold.  Get on in there.

Breakfast Nachos 

Print this Recipe! 

If feels silly to write a recipe for nachos.  It’s more about how hungry you are, and how much you feel like sharing.  Here are the essentials: 

Corn tortilla chips 

Sharp cheddar cheese and/or jack cheese, shredded 

One can drained black or pinto beans 

Shredded chicken or beef 

Fresh corn sliced from the cob 

Salsa 

Sliced ripe avocado 

Eggs over easy. 

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Line a baking sheet with parchment paper for easy clean-up.  Layer corn chips across the pan.  Sprinkle over cheese, beans, meat, and fresh corn.  Place in the oven and heat through until everything is warm and cheese is melted, about 7 minutes.  While nachos are in the oven, cook eggs, over easy, in a nonstick pan.  When nachos are melted and still warm, slide eggs onto nachos.  Top with salsa and avocado.  Serve immediately.  

START RECIPE

Lemon Poppy Seed Pancakes 
September 27, 2012 *	by joythebaker *	215 Comments 
lemon poppy seed pancakes 

There is no time like… NOW! 

(Now would be an excellent time to stop making excuses for why you don’t eat more pancakes.) 


lemon poppy seed pancakes 

If these pancakes can’t be a part of your most immediate NOW, I’d really love for them to be a part of your most immediate weekend. 

They’re indulgent.  They’re best made in the late morning in your house-slippers.  Allow the stars to align. 

lemon poppy seed pancakes 

Lemon zest and a bit of sugar are key ingredients in this recipe. 

I love to rub the zest into the granulated sugar.  The essential oils from the zest are released and spread throughout the batter.  Fragrance and flavor! 

lemon poppy seed pancakes 

Poppy seeds provide a most alluring crunch and subtle earthy flavor.  The lemon and poppy seed combination is my favorite muffin reborn in pancake form. 

This recipe makes a hefty amount of pancake batter.  Pancake breakfast for four?  If not… this batter freezes well.  Simply defrost batter in the refrigerator overnight for super fast pancake breakfast.  I love this kind of recipe. 

lemon poppy seed pancakes 

The crisp edges of pancakes just slay me.  It’s my version of romance. 

lemon poppy seed pancakes 

Lemon Poppy Seed Pancakes are bright and poppy (no pun intended?).  The batter is not very sweet at all, making them the perfect vehicle for pure maple syrup.  The pancakes are made with buttermilk, giving the pancakes their fluffy texture and alluring tang.  If you can’t easily get a hold of buttermilk, I’ve got all sorts of substitutes. 

I want NOW to feel special and really all it takes is a big stack of pancakes.  Real. 

Lemon Poppy Seed Pancakes 

makes a lot of pancakes.  enough for four.  about 24 small pancakes 

Print this Recipe! 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 

2 tablespoons fresh lemon zest 

2 cups all-purpose flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon baking soda 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups buttermilk 

2 large eggs 

2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 

2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 

4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted 

2 tablespoons poppy seeds 

butter, shortening, or vegetable oil for frying 

maple syrup for serving 

In a small bowl combine granulated sugar and lemon zest.  Rub together with your fingers until sugar is fragrant.  Set aside. 

In a large bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.  Stir in the lemon sugar.  Set aside. 

In a separate bowl (or you can use a large liquid measuring cup), whisk together buttermilk, eggs, vanilla extract, lemon juice, and melted butter.  Pour the wet ingredients all at once into the dry ingredients.  Add the poppy seeds and stir to combine.  If a few lumps remain, that’s no problem.  Let the batter rest for 10 minutes while the griddle heats. 

Place a griddle, or a nonstick saute pan over medium heat.  Add a bit of butter, shortening, or vegetable oil to the pan.  A teaspoon of fat will do for a n0nstick saute pan, a bit more fat may be necessary for a griddle.  Dollop batter onto hot pan.  For small pancakes, I use about 2 tablespoons for each pancake.  For larger pancakes, I use about 1/4 cup of batter.  Cook until golden brown on the bottom and and bubbling on top.  Flip once and cook until golden brown on each side. 

Place cooked pancakes on an oven-proof plate and place in a warm (about 150 degrees F) oven until all pancakes are cooked and ready to serve.  Serve with 

butter and warm maple syrup.   



START RECIPE


Whole Grain Waffles with millet, poppy, sunflower, and flax 
March 28, 2013 *	by joythebaker *	74 Comments 
whole grain waffles with millet and poppy 

I have this favorite pair of jeans that feel like magic.  They’re a vintage pair of Levi’s with worn wallet cellphone marks in the back pocket and holes in the knees that I’ve actually earned and not overpaid for.   I can dress them up.  I can wear them with beat up Converse.  I’ve even slept in these things. 

I’ve lived in these pants for years and… realtalk:  I can’t fit into them anymore.  It feels like a shame.  It feels unjust… but I know it’s just life (and butter).  It also feels too hard to let them go.  So I won’t.  Maybe I’ll fit into them again.  Maybe I just need to find the perfect pair of jeans for me to embrace my thirties.  I’m not stressing it… everything will work itself out in the land of pants. 

whole grain waffles with millet and poppy 

Why am I talking about jeans? 

These waffles feel as classic as my favorite pair of jeans.  They’re waffles so they’re inherently fancy and homey.  They can be dressed up with sliced fruit and pure maple syrup… or they can be dressed down with spicy mustard and sliced ham.  They’re an any-which-way situation.  I’ve also packed these waffles with a major amount of seeds.  Accessories are always nice.  Let’s discuss. 


whole grain waffles with millet and poppy 

I like this lot of goodness. 

These waffles are based in whole wheat flour.  I haven’t used nearly enough whole wheat in recent months.  This Whole Wheat and Millet Banana Bread was made far too long ago. 

I love the full nuttiness the whole wheat flour adds to the waffles. 

I added all sorts of health and crunch to the whole wheat base:  poppy seeds, roasted and salted sunflower seeds, uncooked millet for, and flax seeds whole and ground. 

whole grain waffles with millet and poppy 

These waffles are stacked with health and goodness… but you best believe there’s a good dose of butter added too. 

Balance friends… balance (and butter). 

whole grain waffles with millet and poppy 

Waffles are a celebration of odd shapes.  I embrace it. 

whole grain waffles with millet and poppy 

These waffles are hearty:  whole grain flavor with some serious support from seeds and millet.  Standing in the kitchen with an open jar of spicy mustard and a few slices of ham, these waffles are country rustic.  On vintage china with sliced berries and maple syrup, these waffles are classic health.  They’re exactly what they need to be… whatever that may be. 
Perfect jeans can’t last forever.  A perfect waffle recipe stands the test of time. 

(Right?)(Right…) 

Whole Grain Waffles with Millet, Poppy, Sunflower, and Flax 

recipe adapted from King Arthur Flour 

Print this Recipe! 

makes four small, or two large portions 

1 1/2 cups whole wheat flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 

1 large egg 

1 3/4 cups lukewarm milk (I used 2% milk) 

5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled 

1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 

3 tablespoons dry millet 

3 tablespoons shelled roasted sunflower seeds (salted or unsalted) 

2 tablespoons poppy seeds 

2 tablespoons flax seed meal 

1 tablespoons whole flax seeds 

In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar.  In a small bowl, whisk together egg, milk, melted butter, and vanilla extract. 

Add the wet ingredients, all at once, to the dry ingredients.  Stir until all of the dry ingredients are moistened.  The batter may be lumpy.  That’s ok.  Add millet, sunflower seeds, poppy seeds, flax seed meal, and whole flax seeds.  Whisk to combine and try to beat most of the lumps out of the batter.  Allow batter to rest for 10 minutes while the waffle iron preheats. 

Cook waffles according to your waffle makers instructions.  I like to make these as small waffles since they’re dense and seedy.  These waffles are great fresh from the waffle maker, but they’re also great individually frozen and reheated in a toaster oven.  I like to serve the fresh waffles with fruit and maple syrup.  I like to serve the reheated waffles with peanut butter and jelly or ham and mustard.   




START RECIPE

Shrimp + Grits + Cocktail 
April 8, 2013 *	by joythebaker *	74 Comments 
shrimp + grits 

This isn’t my first rodeo.  I’ve been down this shrimp and grits road before… and I’ve taken you with me.  My last encounter with a warm dish of creamy grits and spicy shrimp was served to a gentleman whose only remark was that I had failed to remove the tails from the shrimp before serving them to him.  Really, dude?  Really!?  So ended that short relationship (not really… but sort of… FOR REAL). 

I needed a redo.  Not for flavor’s sake, just for my own self… and because I totally just wanted a giant bowl of this madness. 

New dating rule 37:  I graciously and happily remove a cooked shrimp tail for every car door that is graciously opened for me.  Respect, yo! 

ps.  I don’t actually have thirty-seven dating rules.  I do, however, have two giant bowls of lunch.  Who’s counting (I am). 

shrimp + grits + cocktail 

I made these Shrimp + Grits with my friend Jonathan.  I bought the shrimp, he crashed my house with beer, cucumber, and lime… and we shot pictures on the floor by my front door (see Instagram) (we’re really fancy). 

Jonathan made a bonkers cocktail to pair with the Shrimp + Grits… a Cucumber Blonde Bloody Mary.  It’s fizzy and refreshing.  It’s takes the tomato thickness out of the traditional Bloody Mary and makes this cocktail truly gulp-able.  In addition to being an awesome bringer-of-cocktails-to-my-house, Jonathan is also an incredible photographer, baker… and he’s obsessed with my cat.  All the things I look for in a friend. 


shrimp + grits 

If you need some Shrimp + Grits inspiration, you’ve totally come to the right place. 

You can count on two things when Shrimp + Grits come out of my kitchen:  the grits will be cheesy, and the shrimp will be buttery. 

Please don’t call the diet police. 

shrimp + grits 

Grits are cooked up with a hearty handful of sharp cheddar cheese and a big pat of butter.  Salt and too coarsely ground black pepper make nice additions. 

shrimp + grits 

Before cooking up the shrimp, I sautéed spicy Italian sausage with a bit of garlic.  The sausage adds another level of flavor and spice with a saltiness that speaks to my heart. 

Green onions, a good squeeze of lemon, and fresh parsley are added as bright finishing touches. 

shrimp + grits 
This is my comfort.  I’d like a pillow made out of Shrimp + Grits. 

No… wait.  That’s impossible.  Instead I’d like a pillow made out of Chocolate Chip Challah, with a side of Shrimp + Grits. 

That makes no sense, and yet I’m going to let it stand. 

shrimp + grits 

Shrimp + Grits is cornmeal gruel brought to its highest level.  It’s warm and comforting, and really… make sure you only take the tails off the shrimp for someone you really love.  It’s worth waiting for. 

Spicy shrimp + Cold Beer Bloody Mary… such a major win! 

Shrimp + Grits 

serves 4 

Print this Recipe! 

4 cups water 
1 cup stone ground grits (also known as polenta) 

salt and pepper 

3 Tablespoons unsalted butter 

1 cup sharp cheddar cheese, shredded 

1/2 pound spicy Italian sausage (I used two uncooked links) 

1 large garlic clove, minced 

1 pound shrimp, peeled and deveined without the tails 

4 teaspoons fresh lemon juice 

2 Tablespoons parsley, chopped 

1/2 cup thinly sliced scallions 

Bring water to a boil.  Add grits to the boiling water while whisking to prevent clumps.  Add a bit of salt and pepper.  Lower heat, bring to simmer and cover until water is absorbed.  Follow the directions on your box of grits or polenta.  Cooking times vary, my coarse grits cooked up in about 15 minutes.  Once thick, remove from heat and stir in butter and shredded cheese. 

In a medium skillet over medium heat, cook up the sausage.  Remove the meat from the casing (if it’s in one) and break the meat into small bits with a spoon as it cooks.  Once the meat is cooked through, add the garlic and cook for one minute more.  Add shrimp and cook until shrimp turn pink.  Add lemon juice, scallions, and parsley.  Cook for another three minutes. 

Spoon the grits into a serving bowl and top with shrimp mixture.  Serve happily. 



START RECIPE


Mushroom and Brussels Sprout Hash 
October 15, 2013 *	by joythebaker *	96 Comments 
M83A0149 

Breakfast is one of those special things.  Breakfast is one of those meals best lingered over with extra coffee and super fresh orange juice. 

It usually requires a weekend morning and a little time and someone you generally like to high-five in life.  When those things come together, here’s the deal:  make mushrooms, shred brussels sprouts, and cook some eggs.  First though, make a big pot of coffee. 

I love making this breakfast on a weekend morning because mushrooms take some time to cook.  Mushrooms need some coaxing, heat and salt to melt into deliciousness.  All that mushroom cooking time is made for coffee sipping, brussels sprout slicing, and easy conversations.  It’s living and it feels really good! 


M83A0151 

Let’s get savory. 

love how earthy mushrooms are.  They feel meaty without being… meaty.  The brussels add another earthy note, just leafy and bright green. 

I’ve made this breakfast in my rented kitchen in Asheville, North Carolina, so I kept it super simple:  mushrooms, brussels, olive oil, salt, pepper, and a big hit of lemon.  It’s comfort. 

M83A0173 

It feels like this mushroom and brussels sprout situation could be lunch or a dinner side dish until… until, until WE ADD AN EGG!  Fried egg.  Toast soldiers.  Cold orange juice.  That’s breakfast.  You’re doing it right. 

Mushroom and Brussels Sprout Hash 

serves 2 

Print this Recipe! 

2 tablespoons olive oil 

1 small shallot, minced 

2 big handfuls cremini mushrooms 

1 clove garlic, minced 

3 big handfuls brussels sprouts 

salt and pepper to taste 

juice of half a lemon 

1 scant tablespoon olive oil 

2 large eggs 

Wipe mushrooms with a moist paper towel to remove any excess dirt.  Slice mushrooms into quarters.  Set aside. 

Rinse brussels sprouts.  Slice sprouts into ribbons by thinly slicing horizontally from top to bottom.  Set aside. 

In a medium skillet, heat olive oil over medium heat.  Add shallots and cook until translucent and just browned, about 4 minutes.  Add  the mushrooms and a pinch of salt.  Cook down until mushrooms are softened and beginning to brown.  Add garlic and cook for one minute more. 

Add brussels sprout ribbons and increase heat to medium-high.  Toss to combine and cook until brussels and mushrooms are softened and extra browned.  Once browned and cooked well, remove from the heat, add lemon juice, and toss. 

In a separate sauce pan heat olive oil over medium-low heat.  Crack two eggs into the pan and fry for 30 seconds.  Cover the pan and cook to desired doneness.  I leave my eggs for about 4 minutes for over-medium. 

Divide hash between two bowls.   Place one egg on top of each hash bowl and serve immediately.   



START RECIPE

Baking 101: The Best Buttermilk Substitutes 
November 18, 2013 *	by joythebaker *	99 Comments 
the best buttermilk substitutions 

Let’s talk about buttermilk.  More specifically, let’s talk about how I never have buttermilk in the refrigerator when I need it.  Wwhhyy!? 

What is buttermilk?  Buttermilk is a slightly sour milk.   The sourness of buttermilk comes from acids in the milk, most notably, lactic acids.  Because the proteins in buttermilk are curdled, buttermilk is slightly thicker than regular milk, but not quite as thick as cream.  Buttermilk is also usually much lower in fat than regular milk and cream. 

Cultured buttermilk, as it is called in the United States these days, is a pasteurized milk product.  A culture of lactic acid bacteria is added to low-fat milk to curdle and sour the milk.  Many dairies also add tiny yellow colored flecks of butter to simulate, well… buttermilk. 

Buttermilk is an important part of baking.  The acidic milk combined with baking soda in a recipe is a baker’s dream. It’s helps add a lightness and tenderness to baked treats.  When baking soda is combined with the lactic acids of buttermilk, the acid neutralizes the metallic taste of sodium carbonate.  We talked about this in-depth in Baking 101: The Difference Between Baking Soda and Baking Powder. 

What if you’re plum out of buttermilk?  There are solutions…. let’s talk. 


The Best Buttermilk Substitutes 

Milk and Lemon or Vinegar 

In a 1-cup measuring cup, add 1 Tablespoon of fresh lemon juice.  Top the lemon juice with skim, low fat or whole milk.  Stir and let sit for two minutes.  After two minutes, your milk is both acidic and curdled.  If you need 2 cups of buttermilk, add 1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon of lemon juice or vinegar to the milk.  Two tablespoons aren’t necessary. 

Milk and Yogurt 

Stir 1/4 cup milk into 3/4 cup plain yogurt to create a nicely thick buttermilk substitute. 

Milk and Cream of Tartar 

Stir together 1 cup of milk and 1 3/4 teaspoon cream of tartar.  To ensure that the mixture doesn’t get lumpy, mix the cream of tartar with 2 Tablespoons of milk.  Once mixed add the rest of the cup of milk.  Cream of tartar is an acid and will simulate the acidic environment of buttermilk in a pinch. 

Non-Dairy Option: Almond Milk and Yogurt (with a splash of vinegar) 

Stir 1/4 cup almond milk into 3/4 cup almond milk yogurt.  Add a splash (about 1/2 teaspoon) vinegar to the mixture and stir well.  Soy milk and yogurt can also be substituted for the almond milk products. 

What We’re Making With Buttermilk 

Buttermilk Beignets 

Buttermilk Beignets 

So soft and tender straight from the fryer.  Don’t inhale and eat.  Trust me. 

Roasted Strawberry Buttermilk Cake 

Roasted Strawberry Buttermilk Cake  

Soft cakes topped with ultra sweet, roasted strawberries. 

Brown Butter Banana Bread with Rum and Coconut 

Brown Butter Banana Bread with Rum and Coconut 

Brown Butter and Buttermilk in their greatest union yet. 

Chive and Feta Buttermilk Biscuits 

Feta Chive and Sour Cream Scones 

Dream biscuits.  On the savory side. 



START RECIPE

Buttermilk Ice Cream with Strawberries 
May 11, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	46 Comments 
Buttermilk Ice Cream with strawberries 

I’ve always had a bit of wanderlust.  I like to call it a case of the ‘get-gones’.  I like to, you know… get-gone from everywhichwhere I am.  Just drop me off at the airport and I’ll figure out the rest… all of this to the great dismay of my parents and my cat who tend to stay in one place for extended amounts of time. 

Last month I was lucky enough to be in Asheville, North Carolina where they have the most awe-inspiring blue mountains and the most wonderful chocolate.  Can I camp in the mountains and drink chocolate for the rest of my life?  I might be ok with that. 

This weekend I visited St. Louis where I found seriously good coffee at The Mud House and the most lovely tea from The ReTrailer.  Can I just perfect latte art and blend healing teas for the rest of my days?  That seems really nice. 

The get-gones shape me, in big and subtle ways. 

Realistically thought, I can’t always be gone.  That’s just unreasonable.  There’s Instagram for the times when the get-gones turn into the stay-puts.  I mean… really. 

I also find myself thumbing through cookbooks when I’m feeling travel-antsy.  (I’ve made up a lot of words in this post.)  My most recent cookbook traveling adventure is David Lebovitz’s My Paris Kitchen.  I haven’t been to Paris yet, but I’m pretty sure I’m 100% ready for the Coq Au Vin.  Thank you, David. 

Buttermilk Ice Cream with strawberries 

David’s recipe for Buttermilk Ice Cream caught my eye.  It perfectly marries my love of buttermilk with my love of cold, churned, frozen dairy. 

It’s wonderfully simple!  No egg yolks.  No tempering. 

There’s heavy cream for that luscious supple texture,  buttermilk for the milky tang, and granulated sugar and vanilla honey for sweetness.  I also decided to add a splash of bourbon (which comes pretty naturally to me) to help keep the ice cream scoop able in the freezer. 

This creamy, smooth ice cream is like blending frozen yogurt with gelato.  So rich and fresh to death! 


Buttermilk Ice Cream with strawberries 

As with most good ice creams, we’re going to need an ice cream maker to make this fluffy texture possible. 

Maybe you have an ice cream mixing bowl chilling in the freezer right now.  If you’re that person, I commend you.  I’m never that person.  I use an ice cream maker that freezes internally.  It’s like having an air conditioner that makes its own ice cream, so…. at least there’s that.

Buttermilk Ice Cream with strawberries

I froze the ice cream in a bread pan overnight.  When I scooped it the next day I was amazed at how creamy and scoopable the ice cream was.  For this we can thank the fat from heavy cream and the unfreezing alcohol of bourbon.  Also… it’s tastes daaaang good! 

Buttermilk Ice Cream with strawberries 

Strawberries are showing off.   They’re sweet and ripe and basically begging to be paired with this tart ice cream.  Fine.  You win, strawberries.  We all win. 

This ice cream is simple with a side of tart.  It’s lovely when paired with fresh fruit, but would also be wonderful over a warm fruit pie… I’m thinking Peach Blueberry Pie. 

Buttermilk Ice Cream with strawberries 

makes 1 quart 

adapted slightly from My Paris Kitchen 

Print this Recipe! 

1 3/4 cup heavy cream 

1/2 cup granulated sugar 

3 tablespoons honey 

1 1/4 cup buttermilk 

1 tablespoon bourbon (optional) 

strawberries and a bit of granulated sugar for topping 

In a small saucepan, warm the cream over low heat with the sugar and honey until the sugar is completely dissolved.  Place the mixture in a bowl and refrigerate until chilled through, 6 to 8 hours. 

Stir the buttermilk and bourbon into the chilled sweetened cream.  Freeze according to your manufacturer’s ice cream maker instructions.  I churned my ice cream for about 30 minutes.  Once churned, transfer ice cream to a freezer-safe container and freeze overnight, or until firm enough to scoop. 

Just before serving, toss together sliced strawberries and a few pinches of granulated sugar.  Allow to rest for 15 minutes at room temperature.  Scoop ice cream and top with strawberries and juice.  Enjoy!  


START RECIPE

Peach and Buttermilk Lassi 
June 5, 2015 *	by joythebaker *	26 Comments 
Peach and Buttermilk Lassi 

I‘d easily enjoy a daily diet of milkshakes and french fries.  Steady. I’d never flinch.  It would be a dream.   

In related news, I just spent the last six minutes browsing milk shake machines on Amazon.   

Milkshake diet aside, I’m currently content with my fresh peaches, yogurt, and blender.  It’s the reasonable alternative to milkshakes day and night.  

This lassi is packed with healthful yogurt, fresh summer peaches, tangy buttermilk, and peach pie spice.  The fact that it’s flecked with peach skin feels like a bonus.  It’s summery, healthy, chilled, and supremely refreshing.   

I hope it makes you happy.  Also, I’d totally want cheese on my fries.   


Peach and Buttermilk Lassi 

Ripe peaches!  We’re getting’ while the gettin’ is good.   

For this lassi we combine fresh peaches, lightly sweetened peach yogurt, sweet peach preserves, and tangy thick buttermilk.   

My grandfather used to drink buttermilk by the glass.  I always found it perplexing, but considering he lived to be nearly 100, I’d say he was on to something.   

I prefer my buttermilk blended with peaches and jam.   

Peach and Buttermilk Lassi 

As long as we’re blending peaches, we might as well add some spice!  A few good pinches of ground cinnamon and freshly grated nutmeg make this lassi taste peach pie-ish.  We’re full of great ideas.  

Peach and Buttermilk Lassi 

Blended until smooth and creamy, garnished with fragrant nutmeg and fresh peach slices.  

It’s where smoothie meets milkshake. Creamy, spiced, and brimming with summer-y peach flavors.  I also think fresh strawberries would make for a happy lassi.  Pineapple, too?  I mean… go for it! 


Peach and Buttermilk Lassi 
Yields 2 
Write a reviewSave RecipePrint 
Prep Time10 min 
Ingredients 
2 ripe peaches, unpeeled, pitted, and sliced into wedges 
1 cup peach yogurt, chilled 
1 cup buttermilk, chilled 
3 tablespoons peach jam 
pinch of salt 
big pinch of ground cinnamon 
big pinch of freshly grated nutmeg, plus more for garnish 
Instructions 
In a blender combine most of the peach slices (reserve a few for garnish if you'd like), yogurt, buttermilk, peach jam, salt and spices. 
Blend on high until smooth. Divide between two small glasses and enjoy immediately. 


START RECIPE

Brown Sugar Cookies 
September 18, 2011 *	by joythebaker *	268 Comments 
IMG_7086 

Here’s a few things I’ve learned from life… they definitely have nothing to do with cookies: 

Don’t laugh when someone s you out on a date.  They’ll think you’re laughing at them.  They won’t understand that you’re just flattered and awkward and your head is about to explode.  Don’t chew gum in a public restroom.  It sorta feels like you’re eating bathroom air.  Capital Gross. 

Lastly, don’t drink wine past 3:30am.  It’s totally past your bedtime and you won’t look pretty in the morning. 

It’s just that life is so beautiful, I’d hate for you to make these mistakes. 

Can we talk about cookies now?  Geez. 


IMG_6991 

These cookies are with and without. 

They’re just like chewy sugar cookies, with brown sugar.  They’re also just like chocolate chip cookies, without chocolate chips.  Wrap your brain around those deep depth thoughts. 

IMG_7016 

These are the gorgeous, sweet, chewy, caramel cookies.  They sound so simple:  brown sugar cookies.  But seriously?  These are some of my new favorites.  They have just a touch of ginger and cinnamon in them too.  These aren’t spice cookies.  The ginger and cinnamon adds a roundness, not a ton of spice flavor.  These cookies are the real deal. 

Oh!  If you wanted to add chocolate chips or toffee pieces, we will totally be friends for life. 

Brown Sugar Cookies 

makes 2 1/2 dozen cookies 

from Epicurious September 2011 

Print this Recipe! 

2 cups all-purpose flour 

2 teaspoons baking soda 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 

1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 

1 1/2 sticks (6 ounces) unsalted butter, softened 

1 1/4 cups dark brown sugar 

1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 

1 large egg 

In a medium bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and ginger.  Set aside. 

Place butter and brown sugar in the bowl of an electric stand mixer.  Beat on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 3 to 5 minutes.  Stop the mixer and scrape down the sides of the bowl.  Add the egg and vanilla extract, and beat on medium speed for one minute more. 

Add the dry ingredients, all at once, to the butter and sugar mixture.  Beat on low speed until the dough begins to come together  and the flour disappears.  Stop the mixer and finish incorporating the ingredients with a spatula.  Once all the flour is thoroughly mixed in, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes. 

Place a rack in the center and upper third of the over and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.  Dollop tablespoons size balls of dough onto the baking sheet.  Bake cookies for 10 to 12 minutes, or until lightly browned around the edges.  Cool on the pan for 5 minutes, before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.  Cookies will last, in an airtight container at room temperature, for up to 5 days.   


START RECIPE

Vanilla Almond Orange Cloud Cookies 
November 13, 2012 *	by joythebaker *	154 Comments 
almond cloud cookies 

November is a month that always makes my head spin.  I feel like I’m barreling full force into the holidays, into the end of the year, into planning my life for the next year, into trying to keep my act together and my sore throat at bay. 

I only wish November came with a tally of the year… just a little list that could tell me what has gone down in my year so far. 

I don’t need an update on my New Year’s Resolutions for 2012… we all know those were shot to hell somewhere around January 18, 2012.  I want a tally more along the lines of:  How many times I used the word ‘bonkers’.  How many cookies I stress ate in my car.  How many times I’ve walked around town with either a pound of butter, or a bag of brown sugar in my purse.  How many times I’ve Googled the same word to spell check it.  You know… the important things.  The things that really tell you how you’re living in your everyday.  Quirky, cosmopolitan, and resourceful… right? 

The November days are ticking away quickly. December will come and go in a blur of cranberries and Mariah Carey Christmas CDs.  Before we know it we’ll be pushing someone in the frigid pool at the New Year’s Eve party. 

For now… while we have this simple and quiet November 13th… let’s just enjoy these (or really any) cookies, close our eyes and tally the year’s ridiculousness. 


When it comes to these (gluten-free!!) Vanilla Almond Orange Cloud Cookies, I feel like I have some explaining to do. 

Some explaining beyond an enthusiastic ‘they’re amazing!’ (which they totally are). 

These cookies are made with almond paste.  Almond paste is a thick mixture of ground almonds, sugar, and almond flavoring.  It’s an all-almond situation.  Because almond paste is the main ingredient of these cookies, we’re talking about an intensely almond extravaganza. 

almond cloud cookies 

Almond flavor is paired with orange zest and vanilla bean.  I think the three are pretty, fragrant, and well deserving of one another. 

almond cloud cookies 

We’ll need two egg whites. 

almond cloud cookies 

And we’ll need to beat those egg whites until they’re a bit frothy. 

almond cloud cookies 

The almond paste is beaten with the fragrant orange and vanilla sugar. 

It’s crumbly and that’s totally cool.  The egg whites will be mixed in, and smooth out our cookie world. 

almond cloud cookies 

No flour.  No butter.  No baking powder or baking soda.  Just almond, lovely sugar, and eggs (ok… there’s salt and almond extract too). 

It’s like being on the almond flavor train. 

almond cloud cookies 

The flavor train is dusted generously with powdered sugar. 

almond cloud cookies 

Three finger indentations are made in each cookie and they’re off to meet the oven. 

almond cloud cookies 

These are among the most dreamy cookies imaginable.  Taste and texture are supreme!  The cookies bake up with a lightly golden, crisp exterior.  They’re covered in powdered sugar so there’s no mouth breathing while ingesting.  The inside is impossibly soft and tender… and so beautifully flavored with almond, orange, and vanilla, your brain will find its happy place.  Chewy meets crunchy.  Pavlova meets macaroon (minus the coconut) meets edible cloud. 

This recipe is inspired by a cookie I enjoyed at King Arthur Flour in Norwich, Vermont this weekend.  I need to tell you more about that trip!  Suffice it to say, I made a ton of pie, I baked with some lovely (and super talented) students, and I was genuinely surrounded by people who love good flour and respect good baguette as much as I do.  Basically… heaven. 

Vanilla Almond Orange Cloud Cookies 

recipe adapted from King Arthur Flour 

Print this Recipe! 

makes 18 to 21 cookies 

1 cup granulated sugar 

2 teaspoon orange zest 

1 vanilla bean, seeds scraped 

10 ounces almond paste 

1/4 teaspoon salt 

2 large egg whites, lightly beaten 

1/4 teaspoon almond extract 

powdered sugar 

Place two racks in the center and upper third of the oven and preheat oven to 325 degrees F.  Line two baking sheets with parchment paper and set aside. 

In a small bowl, mix together granulated sugar, orange zest, and scraped vanilla seeds.  Use your fingers to works the zest and vanilla into the sugar, creating a fragrant, moist sugar. 

Place sugar in the bowl of an electric stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment.  Add the almond paste and salt.  Beat on medium speed creating a crumbly sugar and almond mixture. 

While almond mixture is combining in the mixer, place two egg whites in a small bowl.  Whisk  with a fork until loose and frothy.  This will help in pouring the egg whites into the mixer.  If the eggs are unbeaten, they’ll just plop into the mixing bowl and not pour in. 

With the mixer on medium speed, gradually pour the egg whites in to the crumbly almond and sugar mixture.  Beat until a smooth paste is formed.  Add the almond extract and beat to combine. 

Spoon or scoop batter by the heaping tablespoonful onto the prepared baking sheet.  Sprinkle generously with powdered sugar.  Using the tips of three of your fingers, make indentations in each cookie. 

Bake cookies for 20 to 25 minutes or until cookies are lightly browned on top.  Remove from the oven and allow to cool on the pan.  Store cookies in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 5 days.   


START RECIPE

Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 
April 5, 2013 *	by joythebaker *	268 Comments 
Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 

There’s a reason my purse is the size of international travel luggage. 

I lug around a lot.  There’s my giant makeup bag full of the two things I actually use and the 87 things I sort through in search of my favorite two items.  There’s my camera, because I never know when I want to ignore it to take pictures with my iPhone. There’s a bag of smoked almonds because you do not want to see me hangry.  There’s that calligraphy pen you gave me last week… tucked safely away in a zip lock bag. 

There are three pens that don’t work, one pencil, and two lip glosses.  I totally have a band-aid if you need one… I just hope you’re not in a hurry because it will take me a few moments to find it.  Safety pin?  Yes.  Toothpick?  Maybe.  Pair of shoes for spin class? Duh. 

You know what giant purses are also great for?  Smuggling a massive amount of treats into movie theaters.  Yea… I’m that girl.  With my giant bag, you’d never know that I’m smuggling a gourmet picnic (with wine). 

You’d also never suspect that I’d be smuggling my two favorite movie treats (popcorn and chocolate) in one very snackable cookie shape.  Just for future reference… you definitely want to sit next to me at the movies.  You’ll recognize me as the girl carrying her purse luggage across the aisle.  I apologize in advance.  Have treats: will (most likely) share. 

Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 

Let’s pump the brakes.  Did we properly celebrate the fact that we’re folding buttered popcorn into chocolate chip cookie batter?  This little gem of cookie genius is brought to us by Deb from Smitten Kitchen.  She now reigns supreme as Queen of Snacks. 

Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 

Think about the goodness of a sweet brown sugar cookie batter, combined with a salt buttered popcorn.  Dreams! 

I have a taste for salt (because I also have a taste for sugar), so I added a bit of extra grey sea salt into the batter and onto the tops of the cookies. 

Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 

I had a hard time deciding whether or not to add chocolate to this cookie batter. 

Wait… a hard time trying deciding on chocolate!? 

You’re right.  That’s madness.  In goes the chocolate! 

Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 

Buttered popcorn, dark chocolate chunks, and coarse sea salt.  Oh yes please. 

If you’re thinking white chocolate is a good plan, I would support you in that endeavor! 

Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 

These cookies are crunchy around the edges and soft in the center.  Dark chocolate works really nicely with the buttery popcorn and extra salt.  The popcorn gives the cookie a definite chew. 

Here’s a mega tip!  I was talking with Deb about these cookies and she suggested they be made with microwave popcorn!  Yea.  Seriously.  Let’s just all admit that sometimes microwave popcorn is sometimes the bee’s knees. 

Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 

Milk.  Spilled. 

Deb’s Buttered Popcorn Chocolate Chip Cookies 

makes 24 cookies 

adapted slightly from The Smitten Kitchen Cookbook 

Print this Recipe! 

2 tablespoon vegetable oil 

1/4 cup yellow corn kernels 

1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon unsalted butter, melted 

1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened to room temperature 

1/2 cup light brown sugar, packed 

1/3 cup granulated sugar 

1 large egg 

1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 

1 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 

1/2 teaspoon baking soda 

1/4 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup coarsely chopped dark chocolate 

coarse sea salt for sprinkling 

Let’s make the popcorn first.  Place oil in the bottom of a medium saucepan.  Heat over medium heat.  When oil is hot, add corn kernels in a single layer across the bottom of the pan.  Cover the pot but keep the lid ajar to let a bit of steam out.  Listen to the popcorn as it pops.  Turn off the heat and remove the pan from the burner once the popping has subsided.  Sprinkle with salt and drizzle with butter.  Toss to coat all of the popcorn in a bit of butter.  Piece through the popcorn to remove any unpopped kernels.  Set aside to cool.  You’ll have about 4 cups of popcorn. 

Next we’ll make the dough.  Place a rack in the center and upper third of the oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.  Set aside. 

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, cream together butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar.  Cream until butter is pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes.  Beat in egg and vanilla extract for one more minute.  Add the flour, baking soda, and salt and beat on low until just combined.  Remove the bowl from the stand mixer and use a spatula to fold in the popcorn.  It might seem like a disproportionate amount of popcorn considering the cookie batter.  Keep folding.  The popcorn will break down a bit as it’s folded in.  Fold in dark chocolate. 

Scoop dough by the heaping tablespoonful onto the prepared baking sheet.  Sprinkle the tops of the cookies with coarse sea salt.  Bake for 10 to 13 minutes or until the edges and tops are golden brown.  Remove from the oven, allow to rest on the baking sheet for 5 minutes then transfer to a cooling rack to cool completely. 

Store cookies in an airtight container at room temperature.   


START RECIPE

One-Pot French Onion Pasta 
July 24, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	140 Comments 
one pot french onion pasta 

I’m already anticipating Sunday. 

Talk about putting the cart before the horse.  We haven’t even hopped around the weekend enough to make it to Sunday. 

Sundays, I would argue, are the worst.  Actually… they’re the BEST but only between the hours of 8am and noon when we’re sleeping in, churching, brunching, or napping after pancakes.  After noon on a Sunday I find myself in the unfortunate t of pretending to be relaxed while stressing about the week to come.  We’ve talked about this before.  It’s called The Sunday Stresses, and it’s more real that we deserve. 

Luckily there’s PASTA.  All healing, all comforting, all filling PASTA.  Thank you, Lord.  For real. 

I have pasta every Sunday night.  I spoon myself an embarrassingly large bowl, sit cross-legged on the couch,  Comedians In Cars Getting Coffee and just tear through a bowl.  I’m trying to fill the pit of Sunday Stresses and pasta usually works, until it doesn’t… but even still. 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

This One-Pot pasta comes together easily and makes the house smell like an onion dream.  There’s just something so right about the smell of cooking onions. 

While the onions, thyme, and chicken broth flavors have more of a Fall feel to them… well, The Sunday Stresses know no season.   Let’s just get some quality couch time in.  Let’s make out with pasta, just a little. 

NOT WEIRD AT ALL! 


One Pot French Onion Pasta 

Fat spaghetti pasta, chicken broth and water, onions halved and sliced, butter and olive oil, thyme and cheese and arugula and seasoning.  Everything! Let’s go! 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

The onions.  Oh the onions.  They actually cook longer than the pasta itself.  The onions need a bit of caressing with butter and olive oil and low heat. 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

Progress.  It’s hard not to hover and stir, but the onions do need quality time with the heat.  They need to sit and simmer a bit. 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

This is about when I get super impatient and start to think of worms. 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

Golden brown, studded with fresh thyme, seasoned with salt and pepper rather aggressively. 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

Deglazing the hot pan with water and chicken broth.  The steam!  The best part. 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

Welcome to the party, pasta!  We need you. 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

We do a little dance on the stovetop.  Simmer with the lid on for a bit.  Stir with the lid off for a bit.  Simmer with the lid on again.  Fluff with the lid off. 

It’ll all come together in about 10 magical minutes. 

Related:  I need more magical minutes in all of my days.  RIGHT!? 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

Taste and most likely add:  salt and pepper, way too much parmesan cheese, and handfuls of fresh arugula. 

One Pot French Onion Pasta 

By now your neighbors are likely knocking on the door because you made the world smell AMAZING! Share the pasta, not the stresses. 

This pasta is both slightly sweet and salty.  As the onions cook down, they take on a tender and sweet quality.  It’s lovely, but you may find yourself adding a bit more salt and parmesan cheese than you might expect.  I love the spice that fresh arugula adds to the pasta.  Red pepper flakes are also divine.  You want to add cooked sausage too!?  Heck yes! 

Happy Weekend! 

 

Print 
One-Pot French Onion Pasta 
Serving Size: 4 

One-Pot French Onion Pasta 

Ingredients 

3 medium yellow onions, peeled and sliced 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter 
salt and fresh cracked black pepper 
3 teaspoons fresh thyme 
2 cups water 
2 1/2 cups chicken broth 
12 ounces uncooked spaghetti 
salt and fresh cracked black pepper, to taste 
parmesan cheese 
fresh arugula 
Instructions 

Place a large heavy bottom sauce pan over medium heat. Add the olive oil and butter and stir until butter is melted. Add the sliced onions all at once. Stir to coat the onions in the fat. Allow onions to cook, undisturbed, for about 4 minutes. Add salt, pepper and thyme and stir. Allow the onions to cook for about 4 minutes at a time. Lower the heat if the onions are browning too quickly. The onions will begin to brown, break down, and resemble an onion jam. 
When onions are entirely browned and completely soft (about 15 minutes), add the water and chicken broth to the pan. Using a wooden spoon, scrape any burned bits off the bottom of the pan. Add the pasta all at once. 
Return to medium heat and bring to a simmer. Place the lid on the pan and allow to simmer for 5 minutes. Remove the lid to toss and stir the pasta for about 3 minutes. Return the lid and allow to cook for another 5 minutes. Remove the lid and taste the pasta for doneness. There will still be just under an inch of liquid in the pot. Allow the pasta to cook more (if it was still crunchy), or allow some of the liquid to cook off. It's about your preference. I like a bit of the broth remaining. Plus, the pasta will absorb more of the liquid as it sits.
To serve, spoon into large bowls, top with parmesan cheese and fresh arugula. 

START RECIPE
Toasted Marshmallow Milkshake  
November 9, 2010 *	by joythebaker *	331 Comments 
IMG_0396 

Are you one of those people who perfectly toasts their marshmallows to a golden brown? 

How on earth do you do that!?  I don’t get it.  You must have the patience of a marshmallow saint. 

I’m a burn-and-blow kind of girl.  Turn the marshmallow into a torch… blow it out… repeat. 

The patience technique  baffles me.  In fact… I secretly looooove to brush my marshmallow torch against the slow rollers and set their marshmallows on fire.  They totally hate that. 

Marshmallow meets open flame… it’s important in this recipe. 

IMG_0366 


I had no idea that this whole Toasted Marshmallow Milkshake was a thing.  Amazing.  Spike Mendelsohn… that cute dude with the hat from Top Chef invented this thing.  Nice work.  High five. 

IMG_0353 

Now!  I’m going to need you to super toast your marshmallows.  Don’t be afraid of a little black char.  In fact… I say welcome the char.  It’s those itty bitty burny bits that really make this Toasted Marshmallow Milkshake taste like…. you know… a TOASTED Marshmallow Milkshake. 

Incidentally… this shake is so good… SO GOOD… that I’ve made it twice in one day.  In fact, I’m drinking one now… I also have the heater on in my house.  This totally makes sense. 

Ps.  I know I’m supposed to be making cranberry and pumpkin recipes right now…  I just needed to make this happen.  So do you. 

IMG_0405 
Toasted Marshmallow Milkshake 

adapted just slightly from Spike Mendelsohn’s recipe 

makes two small or one large milkshake (about 2 1/2 cups) 

Print this Recipe! 

8-10 large marshmallows 

3 large scoops vanilla ice cream or a heaping 1-cup of vanilla ice cream 

1/2 cup of milk 

1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Place marshmallows on  skewer and toast until slightly charred over a gas flame.  If you don’t have skewers or a gas range, you can toast the marshmallows on a sheet tray in the broiler for 2 or 3 minutes.  Keep an eye on the marshmallows as they’re in the oven.  They’re liable to burst into marshmallow flames pretty quick.  Place on a plate to cool slightly. 

In a blender mix together ice cream, milk, vanilla extract and toasted marshmallows.  Save one or two toasted marshmallows to top the milkshake(s).  Blend well.  For a thinner milkshake add more milk.  If you’d like it a bit thicker… add more ice cream.   Pour into glasses and top with toasted marshmallows.  Enjoy on the quick. 


START RECIPE

Kale Spinach and Pear Smoothie  
January 3, 2011 *	by joythebaker *	310 Comments 
IMG_4475 

If you’re lucky enough to romance someone with breakfast in bed…. do not bring kale.  Bring bacon.  Bacon is better in bed.  Kale is stupid in bed.  Kale is better if you’re a single lady that wants a smoothie. 

How is that for a pro tip? 

IMG_4457 


IMG_4472 

Believe it or not, kale and spinach blend up perfectly into a smoothie. 

I know!  I totally had my doubts…. but it works. 

I added pear and banana and almond milk too.  So super delicious.  It doesn’t taste like you’re drinking kale and spinach.  It tastes like your drinking good. 

Ps.  I have spinach in my teeth.  True story. 

IMG_4488 

Kale Spinach and Pear Smoothie 

inspired by Tracy.  Thanks Tracy !

Print this Recipe! 

1 heaping cup spinach leaves 

1 heaping cup chopped kale leaves 

1/2 pear 

1 frozen banana 

1 1/2 cups cold almond milk (or soy milk or orange juice) 

1 tablespoon honey 

Remove kale leaves from their rough center stalk and coarsely chop.  In a blender, combine kale spinach and almond milk.  Blend until no big kale bits remain.  Stop blender and add banana honey and pear.  Blend until smooth.  Enjoy immediately.  Heck yea! 


START RECIPE

Clementine and Red Wine Spritzers 
June 24, 2013 *	by joythebaker *	70 Comments 
IMG_0116 

It’s amazing where you can find a brief vacation when there’s not actually time to get away. 

Mostly all you need is a brightly colored Mexican cloth and a sunset colored cocktail. 

IMG_0027 

I’m aaallll sorts of ready to let these summer days wash over me, but my reality is much more indoor work style than outdoor beach style.  Is this your reality too?  It’s cool.  It’s totally cool.  We have wine, fancy fruit soda, warm air, late sunsets, and a few good friends to share it all with.  We won’t need much more. 

Can we talk about this crazy awesome spritzer combination?  Clementine aaannnddd red wine!?  It’s unexpected.  It’s a high-five.  Trust me on this one! 


hotel san jose 

This seemingly abstract cocktail combination was inspired by a weekend in Austin Texas at the Hotel San Jose.  They’re clever with their cocktails, friendly in their service, and right on in their design.  Love this place!! 

IMG_0004 

I love that I could take a little piece of the Hotel San Jose pool with me home to Los Angeles. 

It’s totally the drink I can stand around on in a striped dress and make on a Sunday.  Welcome to my life. 

IMG_0009 

This is an easy one! 

Fill a tall glass with ice.  Fill the glass a third of the way full with clementine soda. 

Is clementine soda just a fancy name for orange soda?  Sorta… 

IMG_0019 

Fill the remainder of the glass with sparkling red wine.  Yea!!  We’re fancy and we know it! 

I used a dry Lambrusco for this spritzer.  It was delicious! 

My friend Whitney who knows eighteen thousand more things about wine than I do also suggests a light to medium body red, something unoaked, like a Granache, Gamay or Frapatto.  Wine words!  Get into it! 

IMG_0023 

Just look at this happiness!  I love cocktail rainbows. 

Actually… I think I mean rainbow cocktails. 

IMG_0104 

This mixture of cold sparkling wine with sweet clementine soda is completely surprising and happily refreshing.  It’s like sangria with less fruit and more red wine.  It’s different… and I mean that totally in a good way.  If you’re having a few friends over for a few happy cocktails, this cocktail is an ingenious way to serve something beautiful and stretch your one bottle of wine to satisfy many.  Think of this drink as a delicious, rainbow party, wine stretcher.  AKA:  heck yes!! 

Clementine and Red Wine Spritzers 

makes 4 cocktails 

Print this Recipe! 

1 bottle red wine (anything light to medium boxy, unoaked, not super sweet) (think dry Lambrusco (yay, it’s sparkling!!), Granche, Frappatto, Gamay) 

2 bottled clementine soda 

ice and straws 

Fill each glass with ice.  Fill each glass a third of the way full with clementine soda.  Top with wine and serve immediately! 


START RECIPE

Persimmon Pear Caprese Toast 
December 13, 2012 *	by joythebaker *	90 Comments 
pear persimmon 7 

I’m not much for keeping secrets, so let me just go ahead and tell you all about your Christmas present now.  I got you a few things:  a giant, two-year -old orange cat names Jules Cat Stevens, and a half bottle of rum (I used the first half on this cider).  Truth is, I haven’t done a stitch of holiday shopping.  It seems like every time I try to shop for you, I end up buying myself a scarf from H&M and calling it a day.  Other truth is, I’m the worst. 

photo1 

I’ve been spending more time taking pictures of basil than I have shopping for gifts/scarves. 

pear persimmon 8 

Ok Ok…  It looks like you’re going to get slightly worn H&M scarf for the holidays.  I think you’ll like it.  I do… that’s why I bought it.  Yes, I am, in fact, the worst.  I mentioned that earlier. 

My only saving grace is that, along with your poorly wrapped, newly hand-me-down scarf, I’ll also bring along a mega-treat like these Persimmon and Pear Caprese Toasts.  This creation sort of makes me feel like an appetizer hero, and I’m hoping is saves me from my gifting disasters.  Please and thank you. 


pear persimmon 2 

Let’s talk about the layers of this assembly! 

I started with Fuyu persimmons.  These are the short, squat, firm persimmons.  They’re sweet and apple-like.  Think of what might happen if you smashed together an apple and a mango (minus the pit) during an October sunset.  This is that. 

Red Bartlett pears are an important addition.  Firm is better than soft for these toasts.  We need pears to have body and keep body (totally my personal life motto). 

pear persimmon 3 

 To surround our precious fruits we’ll add olive oil toasted baguette slices, fresh basil leaves, and beautiful fresh mozzarella. 

I love everything that’s happening here. 

pear persimmon 4 

Salt is essential.  It brings out every single subtle flavor in these persimmon toast bites. 

I love combining salt with sweet elements.  The way the salt brings out the taste of the fresh mozzarella is one thing, but when combined with the sweet persimmon and pear… it’s just everything ever.  Savory sweet great! 

pear persimmon 6 

is a winter play on a traditionally summer and tomato situation.  I’ll always find an excuse to put fresh mozzarella in my face, and this dish is elevated and divine.  Because there are so few ingredients, every element is important.  Bread is toasted in a generous amount of good olive oil.  Pears are firm and sweet.  Persimmons show off their distinctly autumn appeal in thick slices atop the pears.  Fresh basil is fragrant and familiar.  Cheese… ooooh!  Lastly, coarse sea salt, fresh cracked back pepper, and a balsamic vinegar glaze make everything feel proper and thoughtful (unlike my lackluster Christmas gift offerings… I’m sorry for those in advance). 


Persimmon Pear Caprese 
Print this Recipe! 

Fuyu persimmon (these are the short, squat firm persimmon), sliced 

firm red Bartlett pear, sliced 

fresh basil 

fresh mozzarella (bite-sized or larger balls that you have to slice) 

fresh baguette (sliced) 

olive oil 

coarsely ground sea salt 

fresh cracked black pepper 

balsamic vinegar glaze 

These are more assembly instructions than they are recipe ts. 

In a medium saute pan over medium heat, warm olive oil.  Add baguette slices and brown bread on each side.  Remove from the pan. 

Top each bread slice with a slice of pear, a slice of persimmon, a fresh basil leaf, and mozzarella.  Drizzle with balsamic glaze and sprinkle with sea salt and fresh cracked pepper.  Serve!  


START RECIPE

Chocolate Dipped Frozen Bananas 
July 29, 2013 *	by joythebaker *	114 Comments 
IMG_1304 

I feel like every blog should have a safeword. 

We need a word that says, ‘Um… why are you posting way less on your blog these days. Are you pregnant?’  No. 

We need a word that says ‘I know you’re phoning it in with that compilation of past posts post’.  It’s cool. 

We need a word that says ‘Cool, you’re engaged!  I’m going to unfollow you on Pinterest immediately’.  It’s nothing personal.  It’s a wedding thing. 

We need a word that says ‘Did you really just post a recipe for ICE!?’.  I’m sorry. 

I was going to have our safeword here be ‘Lasagna Grilled Cheese‘… but we can’t use that anymore because that’s a thing now.  Our safeword definitely can’t be ‘Chocolate Dripped Bananas’ because that’s obviously a thing.  Maybe our safeword should be ‘gorilla pants’… until I get a pair.  I’ll let you know when that happens.  Until then, ‘gorilla pants’ is our safeword. 

I’m really glad we had this talk. 

IMG_1127 


IMG_1060 

Let’s talk about toppings. 

I’m trying to keep it classy.  It took everything in me not to throw colored sprinkles in the mix.  Classing it up! 

Salted pistachios are shelled and coarsely chopped.  Chili-rubbed almonds are (snacked on) and coarsely chopped.  Cocoa nibs are appreciated for their dark and bitter crunch.  We’re ready to sprinkle! 

IMG_1074 

Melted chocolate is mandatory… otherwise we just have bananas on sticks, and what fun is that? 

IMG_1101 

Dip and sprinkle.  Dip and sprinkle. 

IMG_1104 

I love when messy things are also pretty.  I think this only happens when chocolate and pistachios are involved.  My kitchen is messy… and not so pretty at all. 

IMG_1309 

These summer treats are exactly as advertised:  chocolate and chilled, sprinkled bananas.  Frozen bananas are super satisfying… like nature’s popsicles.  Covered in chocolate and salty nuts,  I mean…. 

You know the deal. 

Chocolate Dipped Frozen Bananas 

Print this Recipe! 

12 ounces dark chocolate, melted over a double boiler with 1 tablespoon coconut oil 

3 large bananas, cut into thirds 

popsicle sticks 

chopped salted pistachios 

chopped spiced or smoked  

cocoa nibs 

Melt chocolate over a double boiler (or in the microwave, if you prefer) with coconut oil.  Stir until smooth, glossy, and entirely melted. 

Insert a popsicle stick into one end of each banana piece.  Dip each banana into the warm melted chocolate.  Shake off excess chocolate as best you can.  Place dipped bananas on a parchment lined baking sheet. Sprinkle generously with chopped pistachios, chopped almonds, or cocoa nibs.  Place in the freezer to harden and set. 

When frozen through wrap individually or enjoy immediately.   


START RECIPE

Creamy Zucchini Tarragon Soup 
April 21, 2013 *	by joythebaker *	87 Comments 
Creamy Zucchini Tarragon Soup 

I feel like Mary Poppins would be a really wonderful soup maker. 

I’m not talking about the spoonful of sugar. 

It’s that magical purse she carries around.  If she can pull a coat rack and house plant out of her nanny bag, imagine the things she could coax from a giant soup pan.  Dreams!  I imagine the most lovely and effortlessly delicious soup, with a dash of cream like whaaat!? 

Wait… can Mary Poppins make us all soup forever and always? 

I wonder if Mary Poppins has wasabi peas and a baguette in her purse.  Probably. 


Creamy Zucchini Tarragon Soup 

I made this soup on a day that I needed soup… and a day when I needed soup to be easy. 

This zucchini soup went from coarsely chopped veggies, to a hot broth bath, to blender soup magic.  It’s incredibly simple and majorly satisfying. 

This soup can be as meaty or vegan as you’d like.  It’s entirely flexible.  Chicken stock versus vegetable stock.  Butter versus olive oil.  A sprinkling of parmesan cheese or a smattering of chopped toasted almonds.  Tarragon is essential.  It has a bright anise-like flavor that really compliments the base zucchini flavor. 

Adding a bit of cream to finish is decadent, but the soup is dang delicious without it.  I made the soup with and without cream and I happened to eat the entire bowl of cream-laced soup… just sayin’. 

Creamy Zucchini Tarragon Soup 

This soup recipe comes from the center of my stack of Spring reading inspiration.  The new Daphne Oz book, Relish is disarmingly sweet and has some really lovely recipes that inspire sharing and caring.    Also… I think reread East Of Eden because it tears my heart apart then puts it back together-ish.  Lastly, kitten toe hair is a thing.  I can’t deal (but I can). 

Creamy Zucchini Tarragon Soup 

recipe from Relish 

serves 4 

Print this Recipe! 

2 tablespoons olive oil 

1 medium sweet yellow onion, about 1 1/2 cups 

2 cloves garlic, peeled and minced 

4 medium zucchini, chopped, about 5 cups 

2 tablespoon fresh tarragon leaves, plus more for garnish 

1/4 cup white wine 

2 cups vegetable or chicken stock 

salt and fresh cracked black pepper 

1/4 cup heavy cream, optional 

white truffle oil for garnish, optional 

Heat olive oil in a large soup pot over medium heat.  Add onion and saute until translucent, about 3 to 5 minutes.  Add garlic and saute for 1 minute more.  Add zucchini and tarragon leaves and cook for about 2 minutes, stirring often.  Add the wine and deglaze the bottom of the pan. Add stock and bring to a simmer.  Cook for 15 to 20 minutes, or until zucchini is cooked through and soft. 

Transfer soup to a blender, place a towel over the blender and puree until smooth.  You can also use an immersion blender.  Return the soup to the pot and stir in cream, if using.  Season with salt and pepper.  Serve with a drizzle of white truffle oil and a few tarragon leaves. 


START RECIPE


Creamy Avocado Hummus 
January 27, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	49 Comments 
Creamy Avocado Hummus 

I made Curry Hummus a few weeks back.  In that recipe I made mention of Smitten Kitchen’s Ethereally Smooth Hummus.  Deb achieved her heavenly hummus smoothness first by peeling each and every garbanzo bean. Pfffttt.  I quickly and easily dismissed that possibility in my Curry Hummus in hopes of expediting the process and getting hummus in my face as soon as possible.  Peel every bean!? No way. 

 The only problem is, the thought of Deb’s smooth hummus has been haunting me ever since!  Dangit!  Laziness backfired.  

Back in the kitchen for me!  This time with a recipe from the latest Food and Wine magazine for Avocado Hummus.  Between the peeled beans and the creamy avocado, I really need this to be a smooth success! 


Creamy Avocado Hummus 

How long does it take to peel two cups of garbanzo beans for hummus?  About twenty minutes.  Twenty solid minutes.  Is it worth it?  Yea… mostly.  Do you really haaaaave to do it.  No… it’s cool.  But you might be haunted just like me.  Beware. 

The peeled garbanzo beans are combined with other hummus-y ingredients like garlic, tahini, lemon, olive oil, salt and pepper.  The avocado adds a really rad depth of flavor, making this hummus somewhere between guacamole and hummus. 

Creamy Avocado Hummus 

Well!!?  Wa it completely smooth!?  Was it worth the twenty minutes of peeling?  Yes my hummus was dreamy smooth.  But I have to admit that all that smooth hummus kind of had me missing the slightly more chunky variety.  Ugh.  I know.  I’m the worst.  This might be a ‘grass is always greener’ situation.  I loved the light and creamy texture of this hummus, but also would have been totally satisfied if the hummus had a little bite to it.  Either way it works for me.  At least I can rest easy knowing this! 

It’s time for pita chips and avocado slices! 

I like to add a bit of olive oil, coarse sea salt, and black pepper to my hummus.  A little bit of bite with every bite! 

Creamy Avocado Hummus 

makes about 3 cups 

Print this Recipe! 

1 (15-ounce) can chickpeas, drained 

2 ripe avocados, cut into chunks 

1/2 cup olive oil 

1/4 cup fresh lemon juice  

1 1/2 tablespoons tahini 

1 clove garlic 

salt and pepper to taste 

green bell pepper, sliced for serving 

cucumber, sliced for serving 

pita chips, for serving 

For an extra smooth hummus spread, take the time to remove the skins from the chickpeas.  If you have neither the time or patience for that, no problem… throw the drained chickpeas in as-is. 

In the bowl of a food processor, combine chickpeas, avocado chunks, olive oil, lemon juice, tahini, and garlic.  Add a good pinch of salt and pepper.  Blend until combined and smooth.  I blended my hummus for about 3 minutes.  Stop the food processor and taste.  Add more salt and pepper and lemon if necessary.  Blend for another 5 minutes until light and smooth.  Serve topped with a bit of olive oil, salt and pepper.  Serve with fresh vegetables and pita chips.   


START RECIPE

Cauliflower Rice Burrito Bowl 
May 27, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	44 Comments 
Cauliflower Rice Burrito Bowl 

Be advised:  It would be best not to get in between me and my burrito. 

I’m talking about the kind of burrito that’s the size of a newborn baby and served, covered in cheese and red sauce, on a scalding hot that plate that I always touch even thought I’m cautioned against it.  The kind of burrito that is filled with so much cheese, so much rice, so much stewed beef, so much guacamole… it feels as right as it does obscene. 

Yea… don’t get in between me and that burrito.  It’s probably best if we don’t even make eye contact. 

This (thankfully/sadly) is not that burrito. 

Let’s welcome cauliflower to the table.  We’ll set aside all the beef, red sauce, and most of the cheese momentarily. 

cauliflower rice burrito bowls 

This recipe starts with Cauliflower Rice which I’m pretty sure is ALL THE RAGE on paleo blogs.  I make the opposite of a paleo blog, so…. this might seem a little strange. 

We’re talking about the simple art of turning raw cauliflower florets into little bits of simulated rice.  It’s good, it’s really really good! 

cauliflower rice burrito bowls 

Cauliflower + Food Processor = Cauliflower Rice. 

I used a purple and green cauliflower, not because I’m fancy, mostly because that’s what looked fresh at the grocery. 


cauliflower rice burrito bowls 

Once the cauliflower is pulverized, it’s placed into a hot skillet with olive oil.  It’s sautéed, softened, and browned.  Salt and pepper are generously added. 

Cauliflower, olive oil, salt and pepper are just the basics.  This rice really can take on any flavor that you’d like. 

You might consider adding: 

– sautéed onions and garlic. 

– roasted tomatoes and fresh cilantro. 

– fresh lemon juice and parsley. 

You can decide on your degree of fancy.  It’s up to you! 

cauliflower rice burrito bowls 

I surrounded my simply seasoned cauliflower rice with burrito bowl inspired flavors:  fresh avocado, black beans, spicy salsa, cilantro, jalapeños, leafy kale greens,  cheese and freshly fried corn chips because CAN WE LIVE A LITTLE!?  Yes, of course we can. 

cauliflower rice burrito bowls 

The kale is cooked down with olive and garlic.  Wilty but not too wilty. 

Cheese is grated, because we like treats, and chips are ready to be fried. 

cauliflower rice burrito bowls 

I think this bowl is best served in zones… unlike, very unlike a well-made burrito. 

Warm cauliflower rice, garlic greens, black beans, crispy salty fried corn chips, shredded cheddar, avocado chunks, lime and spicy salsa. 

Totally burrito bowl good-times without feeling like we ate an entire burrito baby.  Protein + greens + vegetables + a little cheese for good measure.  I’m pretty sure the next step is getting way way into CrossFit, so… get ready! 

Cauliflower Rice Burrito Bowl 

makes 2 bowls 

Print this Recipe! 

For the Cauliflower Rice: 

(Like any rice, this cauliflower rice takes on any flavor that you’d like.  Feel free to add sautéed onions, garlic, or fresh herbs to this rice.  Below are the bare bones of cauliflower rice.) 

1 small head of raw cauliflower, any color, cut into medium florets 

2 tablespoons olive oil 

salt and pepper to taste 

For the Burrito Bowls: 

(Divide and heap each of the following onto two large shallow bowls, or two plates.) 

2 large portions of cauliflower rice 

1 cup black beans, warmed 

2 cups kale or spinach, wilted and sautéed in olive oil and garlic 

2 spoonfuls spicy salsa 

2 small handfuls shredded cheddar cheese 

1 ripe avocado, sliced or cut into chunks 

pickled jalapeños 

fresh fried corn tortilla chips 

fresh cilantro leaves 

To make the cauliflower rice, place florets in a food processor fitted with the blade attachment.  Process until cauliflower is ground into fine bits that resemble bits of rice or couscous. 

Place a large skillet over medium heat.  Add olive oil.  Add the cauliflower bits to the heated pan and toss to combine.  Allow to cook until the cauliflower rice has softened slightly and browned, about 6 to 8 minutes.  Season generously with salt and pepper.  Add any other flavoring, herb, or seasoning you might enjoy.  Remove from heat and spoon into two large bowls.  If you have any excess rice, store it in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. 

To make a burrito bowl, start with a large shallow bowl or plate.  Spoon cauliflower rice onto the plate.  Spoon warmed black beans next to the rice.  Spoon sautéed kale next to the beans.  Top generously with hot salsa, shredded cheese, ripe avocado, pickled jalapeños, fried tortilla chips, and fresh cilantro leaves.  Enjoy! 


START RECIPE

Roasted Tomato and Feta Guacamole 
August 13, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	41 Comments 
roasted tomato and feta guacamole 

I wish there was some sort of Willy Wonka-style candy factory that produced savory avocado delights instead of candy.  In addition to that statement making me sound stone-cold craaaazy, the reality of that sort of factory would be absolutely AMAZING!  Don’t lie.  You want in. 

I’d totally Veruca Salt my way all up in there.  No shame. 

Since there is no fantasy-land avocado factory I’ve settled for roasting a big ol’ bunch of cherry tomatoes, and tossing them (along with just a little too much feta) into a batch of creamy do-no-wrong guacamole. 

Roasted Tomato and Feta Guacamole 

Don’t roasted cherry tomatoes look a little bit like candy?  If candy were vegetable. 

Related and rhetorical:  why won’t I shut up about candy!? 


Roasted Tomato and Feta Guacamole 

These avocados feel like a hot commodity here in the South.  In California, they grow on trees (like money, and Jimmy Choos) and you always have a friend who complains about the random avocado tree littering their backyard with avocados.  Oooooh how I long for such produce problems. 

Roasted Tomato and Feta Guacamole 

In-skin slicing, because we’re very smart and very efficient. 

Cilantro and onions in the avocado bowl all for the mashing. 

Roasted Tomato and Feta Guacamole 

Coarsely chopped roasted tomatoes and big crumbles of feta are folded into the mashed avocado mixture. 

Lots of fresh lime, salt, and pepper, too! 

Roasted Tomato and Feta Guacamole 

That was easy, wasn’t it!? 

It’s natural to feel mostly like a magician. 

Print 
Roasted Tomato and Feta Guacamole 
Prep Time: 20 minutes 

Serving Size: 4 servings 

Roasted Tomato and Feta Guacamole 

Ingredients  

1 heaping cup cherry tomatoes, sliced in half 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
salt and pepper to roast 
4 ripe Haas avocados, pitted and sliced into chunks 
1 small yellow onion, peeled and finely diced (a heaping 1/2 cup) 
1 jalapeño, seeded and finely diced 
juice of 2 limes 
1/4 cup coarsely chopped fresh cilantro 
heaping 1/3 cup crumbled feta 
salt and pepper to taste 
corn chips for serving 
Instructions  

Place a rack in the upper third of the oven and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place tomato halves, cut side up, on the baking sheet. Drizzle lightly with olive oil and sprinkle generously with salt and pepper. Roast until bubbling and slightly wrinkled and dry, about 15 minutes. Remove from the oven dan plow to cool on the pan until cool enough to handle. Place all of the tomatoes on a cutting board and coarsely chop. 
In a medium bowl, combine avocado chunks, onion, jalapeño, lime juice, and cilantro. Coarsely mash with a fork or a potato masher. Add tomatoes, feta crumbles, salt and pepper. Stir to combine. Taste and season as necessary. Cover and chill in the refrigerator for about an hour before serving. Serve with corn chips. 


START RECIPE

Beet Lemonade 
June 25, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	39 Comments 
beet lemonade 

I am the thirstiest person.   I’ve taken a city-wide poll, and yep… it’s me.  I win the prize for the thirstiest human. 

I’m trying to get creative with the cold beverages that I take in this summer.  I’ve been brewing my own black tea which is remarkably easy, reasonably priced, and delicious.  Adding fresh mint (stems and leaves) into the brewing tea makes it fancy in a flash.  I’m also a huge fan of adding cucumber and lemon slices to water, smashed strawberries to sparkling water, and a splash of orange juice in my iced green tea. 

None of it feels particularly genius though it is pretty dang refreshing. 

This lemonade though… this neon magenta lemonade feels like a small stroke of genius.  Sweet, tart, and big bright pink!  Let’s drink. 

If you’re feeling like you’d like to add a glug of vodka into this lemonade refresher… well, I get you.  Go on and get it! 

Beet Lemonade 

Let’s start with the basics:  fresh lemons juiced up just right, granulated sugar, filtered water, and raw, grated beet (about 1/4 cup). Yes, actual beet root! 


Beet Lemonade 

Lemons are juiced!  We’ll need about 3/4 cup of fresh lemon juice. 

One small beet is grated on the small side of a box grater.  We’ll only need about 1/4 cup of raw beet.  The color and flavor is potent but not overpowering! 

Beet Lemonade 

Fresh lemon juice, shredded raw beets, sugar, and a bit of water are blended together in a food processor.  You might also use a blender.  Either works well! 

The beets will never be perfectly smooth, but a good blending will infuse the lemonade with lots of beet color and flavor. 

Beet Lemonade 

Pass the beet lemonade through a fine mesh strainer.  That way we’ll get all of the bright pink beet lemonade without the actual beet pulp. 

Beet Lemonade 

Not strawberry.  Not raspberry.  Pfffttt.. 

Pretty pink beet! 

Beet Lemonade 

Lots of ice because it’s summer and I’m pretty sure that lemonade without ice is a crime. 

Beet Lemonade 

Sweet and tart with a hint of beet and a whole lot of pink. 

No need for a fancy juicer.. just a citrus juicer, a blender, and a mega amount of ice. 

Happy hot days to us!  Let’s drink to our thirst! 

Beet Lemonade 

makes about 8 cups 

adapted slightly from Saveur 

Print this Recipe! 

3/4 cup fresh lemon juice 

2/3 cup granulated sugar 

1/4 cup finely grated raw beet* 

6 cups filtered water, divided 

*I used the fine grating side of a box grater to shred a small, raw, unpeeled beet.  You can also use a food processor with the shredder attachment, but I found the box grater to be much easier. 

In a blender or a food processor (fitted with the blade attachment), blend together lemon juice, sugar, shredded beet, and 1 cup of water.  Blend for 1 minute until the mixture is bright pink and well combined.  The beets will never be fully smooth,  that’s ok! 

Strain mixture through a fine mesh strainer and into a medium bowl.  Use the back of a spoon to press any remaining juice out of the beets and into the lemonade.  Transfer strained mixture to a pitcher and discard the beets.  Add remaining 5 cups of water to the pitcher and stir.  Taste and add more lemon or sugar as necessary.  Store in the refrigerator and serve chilled.   


START RECIPE

Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 
December 1, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	43 Comments 
Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 

Forgive me, belly.  I’ve done you wrong.  I mean… I’ve done you so so so right, but wrong wrong wrong. 

I’ve done you with too much macaroni and cheese.  I’ve done you with ALL of the gumbo in New Orleans, the smothered greens, the doughnuts, the doughnuts again… I’m sorry.  It was delicious so you’re welcome… and I’m sorry. 

You deserve a break.  Enjoy this salad.  It’s just about time to start making fudge.  Hold on tight. 


Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 

Let’s talk about these green things. 

Kale is chopped nice and fine.  It’s raw and fibrous so smaller bites are better. 

Romaine lettuce is light and crunchy… chop that business nice and fine, too! 

Tangerines and sweet and perfect right now.  Grab those. 

Avocados for always, and sesame seeds because we’re going to need something to get stuck in our teeth to embarrass us later.  If you want to leave out the sesame seeds, you might as well go ahead and walk around with your pants zipper accidentally unzipped to properly embarrass yourself.  It’s the way of a Monday. 

Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 

To soften my kale, I rubbed it with a bit of olive oil and sea salt.  It’s a kale massage… a totally normal thing to do. 

Once the kale is massaged, the dressing ingredients go into a small jar. 

Rice wine vinegar, sesame oil, honey, soy sauce, pepper.  Toss is a tiny bit of fresh, minced garlic if you’re feeling it. 

In a jar.  Seal the lid  Shake like mad. 

Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 

Citrus segments and avocado are a dream combination.  Bright and juicy meets soft and creamy.  As the salad is tossed together, the orange segments may split and the avocado may mash a bit making these elements a lovely addition to the sesame dressing. 

Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 

More with the sesame, salt, and pepper. 

Now is a good time for you to grab a fork.  Your belly will thank you for this not-doughnut-salad. 

Not that you’ve been eating doughnut salads… that’s me.  I’ve been all over that. 

Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 

Print 
Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 
Serving Size: 2 large or 4 small servings 

Kale, Avocado, Tangerine, and Sesame Salad 

Ingredients 

3 heaping cups clean and well-chopped kale 
1/2 tablespoon olive oil 
pinch of salt 
3 heaping cups clean and well-chopped romaine lettuce 
2 tangerines, peeled and divided into segments 
1 large ripe avocado, sliced 
1 1/2 tablespoon black sesame seeds 
3 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 
2 tablespoons sesame oil 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 teaspoon honey 
fresh cracked black pepper, to taste 
coarse sea salt, to taste 
Instructions 

Place kale in a large bowl and drizzle with olive oil and a pinch of salt. Massage the oil and salt into the kale.
Add the romaine, tangerines, and avocado the the bowl. 
Sprinkle with black sesame seeds. 
In a small jar with a tight-fitting lid, combine vinegar, sesame oil, soy sauce, honey, and pepper. Place the lid on the jar and shake vigorously until emulsified. If you don't have a jar, whisk the ingredients together in a medium bowl until well combined. 
Drizzle the dressing over the greens, oranges, and avocados. Toss to combine. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and enjoy! 


START RECIPE

Winter Citrus Booster with ginger and sweet potato 
December 11, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	28 Comments 
Winter Citrus Booster with ginger and sweet potato 

Cold season?  Nope.  Not going to do it.  Flu season?  Get right outta here with all that.  Sniffles?  Congestion?  The general drags?  Nobody has time for all that. 

To keep the sickness bugs at bay as the days frost over and chill, I’m shoving every whole and healthy bit of produce I have into my juicer.  This version is heavy on the big, bright citrus of Winter, and spiked with spicy fresh ginger. 

There’s no way a cold is getting me down.  knockonwood 


Winter Citrus Booster with ginger and sweet potato (1) 

A good while ago, on a juicing kick, I talked a lot about juicing here:  On Juicing.  Since them, I’ve eaten a lot of french fries and chocolate chip cookies. 

To make juice… you’re going to need a juicer.  That’s just the deal.  Two great juicers include the Hurom Slow Juicer  and this KitchenAid Juicer Attachment that attaches directly to a stand mixer! 

Winter Citrus Booster with ginger and sweet potato 

It’s got to be good to drink something this naturally brightly colored, right?  I mean… vitamin C, vitamin A, folate and a million other awesome things!  It’s a big bright glass full of health. It’s good news for our insides and outsides.  Happy almost Winter! 

Print 
Winter Citrus Booster with ginger and sweet potato 
Serving Size: 2 large servings of juice 

Ingredients 

5 carrots, chopped into bite-size pieces 
1 large sweet potato, unpeeled and chopped into bite-size pieces 
1 tangerine, peeled and segmented 
2-3 inches ginger, unpeeled and chopped 
1 navel orange, peeled and sliced into bite-size pieces 
1 grapefruit, peeled and sliced into bite-size pieces 
Instructions  

Because we're working with hard root vegetables and juicy citrus, we're going to need a pressing juicer. I'm afraid a blender won't give you the same affect. 
Run all of the ingredients through a juicer. Enjoy immediately over ice. 


START RECIPE

All The Citrus and Some Of The Greens Salad 
December 30, 2014 *	by joythebaker *	50 Comments 
All The Citrus and Some of the Greens Salad 

I take my salads very seriously. Similarly, I take my omelettes, sandwiches and daiquiris with equal reverence. I need to know the person making me an omelette and I prefer that they have a big floppy chef hat on (bonus).  I need to shake the hand of the person making my sandwich before they put plastic gloves on and add extra black olives to my situation (thank you!).  I like to know the middle name of the person making me a daiquiri… a fact I usually learn after the third of fourth daiquiri.  All of this to say, I love when people make me food, and I really like to know who they are before I enjoy it.   

Salads, though.  I like to make my own salads.  There’s a delicate balance of fruit and green, cream and crunch and nuts.  Let’s try!  

 

All The Citrus and Some of the Greens Salad 

There’s a trick when it comes to eating (and really enjoying) a salad. It has to be pretty. I mean… if you’re going to trick me into eating raw parsley, it better be good lookin’. 

Winter citrus will be our beauty. That’s not to say that parsley isn’t beautiful, but most things are prettier when a pink grapefruit is around. That’s science. 

All The Citrus and Some of the Greens Salad 

We’re working with a divine combination of Winter offerings: pink grapefruit, navel oranges, and blood oranges. I miss strawberries until I remember oranges are everything. All of the citrus! Not really, I’m missing the pomelo, but you get the idea. 

All The Citrus and Some of the Greens Salad 

Greens include thinly shredded romaine leaves, sharp and spicy fresh parsley, crunchy celery, and creamy avocado. 

All The Citrus and Some of the Greens Salad 

See? Look at our beauty. Juicy sweet citrus, crispy lettuce and celery, creamy avocado and a lemon vinaigrette, topped with salty roasted cashews. All of the textures to entice us into health! Happy day to you and me! 


All Of The Citrus and Some Of The Greens Salad 
The biggest and brightest Winter salad. 
Write a reviewSave RecipePrint 
Ingredients 
1 pink grapefruit 
2 blood oranges 
1 naval orange 
4 cups, shredded romaine lettuce 
1 stalk celery, sliced 
1/4 cup coarsely chopped flat leaf parsley 
1 ripe avocado, peeled and sliced into cubes 
juice of half a lemon 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
salt and pepper to taste 
1/4 cup very coarsely chopped salty roasted cashews 
Instructions 
Slice all of the citrus. Cut the bottom and top of of each citrus fruit. Stand the fruit up on its bottom and slice down the fruit, removing all of the peel and as much of the pith as possible Once entirely peeled, turn the citrus on it's side and slice into rounds. Set aside. 
In a medium bowl, toss together lettuce, celery, parsley, half of the avocado, lemon juice, olive oil, salt, pepper, and half of the cashews.  Toss well.
Arrange the citrus rounds on a round plate leaving space in the center of the plate for the greens. Add the tossed greens and garnish with the remaining avocado and cashew. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and enjoy! 


START RECIPE

Sweet and Sour Green Juice 
March 10, 2015 *	by joythebaker *	40 Comments 
Sweet and Sour Green Juice 

If you found me sitting on my living room floor drinking this green juice, eating peanut butter with a spoon straight from the container, and blasting 90’s Ani DiFranco, well… you could chalk that up to awesome taste, cool life-stylings, or… more likely, single real-life independent-woman cat-lady instincts come to life.  Related:  please listen to Dilate asap.   

I also have my old pair of Dr Martens from 1997 and I always think that oooonnneee day they might make sense on my body again. I know that will never be true, but a girl can hope.   

Can we just get on with the juice? My peanut butter and Ani consumption are always part of the deal.  You can dig it.  


Sweet and Sour Green Juice 
These days New Orleans is party stormy, part warm breezy, part haunted tropic, part angry beauty.  I wanted a juice that matched that in sweet and sourness.   

Lemons (from a local tree thankyouverymuch), romaine for green, apple for sweetness, and cucumber for girth and clean juice!  The combination is both satisfying and bright.  Totally the gateway into Spring.  Just like those dang Cadbury candy coated eggs that are taunting us at the drugstore.  Don’t buy those! (Until you’ve had all your green juice and they’re on mega sale after Easter… then go NUTS! cool thanks.)  

We’ve talked about juicing before:  On Juicing.   

More juicing inspiration here:  Good Morning Greens and Carrot Orange Ginger (and bourbon).    


Sweet and Sour Green Juice 
Sweet, sour, earthy and bright. This juice is healthful and delicious! 
Write a reviewSave RecipePrint 
Ingredients 
1 large apple, cored and sliced 
1 unpeeled cucumber, quartered and sliced 
1 large handful clean romaine lettuce leaves 
1 lemon, sliced, quartered, and peeled 
Instructions 
Run all of the fresh fruits and vegetables through a slow juicer. Serve over a bit of ice, or room temperature. Enjoy! 
By Joy the Baker 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Breakfast: Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oats 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

55 
The Instant Pot makes breakfast easy with this Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oatmeal recipe!I left my Instant Pot in the box for at least 6 months, but not for the reasons everyone else does. 

The Instant Pot is an electric pressure cooker, and I’ve seen other people talk online about how they let theirs sit unopened because they were afraid of it exploding. Me, I’m just too busy to read the instructions or try something new sometimes – isn’t that silly? 

I used my poor Instant Pot once, last summer, for a party when I was in a pinch (and totally overcooked my broccoli and cauliflower because I didn’t take the time to read the instructions, ha!) and then it sat in my basement for another 6 months before I re-discovered it. 

And now…it’s been in almost constant use for the past 2 weeks, I’ve figured out how to adapt slow cooker recipes for the Instant Pot, and I’ve even already sent one as a gift to my hard-to-buy-for friend who visited and was smitten with it. She keeps texting me beautiful pictures of her food with notes like “this is a game-changer.” 

Make your Instant Pot work for you! 
The Instant Pot has gotten a lot of hype over the last couple years – for good reason. It really can do just about anything. 

Although it can seem a bit daunting to use at first, it really becomes quite simple once you give it a try. 

Use the techniques, tips and simple recipes from the Instant Pot Guidebook to get started, and before you know it, your Instant Pot will become indispensable! 

Get the Instant Pot Guidebook for FREE! 

The Instant Pot makes breakfast easy with this Steel Cut Apple Cranberry Oatmeal recipe! 

Discovering Steel Cut Oats 
The recipe I get to share today has become a favorite breakfast for my kids – even though we never like steel-cut oats before this! It’s a good idea to prep ahead the night before with all the ingredients, because the “instant” part of the Instant Pot is a bit overblown online in my opinion – it takes about 20 minutes to get up to pressure, so you have to add that amount to all cooking times. 

You CAN set a delay timer on many models, so as long as you’re ok with dairy products sitting out all night (I am) or are using coconut milk, it can still be ready when you need it in the morning. Or if you’re like me, you can try to get up at least an hour before the kids anyway to start working…or do laundry…or sit in silence (which never happens!). Then you can push the on button and walk away, no stirring or ing temps needed, which is a nice change even from the ease of regular stovetop oatmeal. 

AN EASY AND DELICIOUS BREAKFAST TO BE SURE! 
Instant Pot Steel Cut Oats Breakfast Recipe 
5.0 from 2 reviews
Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oats {Instant Pot} 
 

Print 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
40 mins 
Total time 
50 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 6 
Ingredients 
2 c. steel cut oats 
2 c. milk 
1 c. yogurt (or another cup milk or part whey) 
3 c. water 
4 apples, diced 
1 ½ c. fresh cranberries 
2-4 Tbs. butter and/or virgin coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) 
1 tsp. fresh lemon juice 
1-2 tsp. cinnamon 
½ tsp. nutmeg 
¼ c. maple syrup 
½ tsp. salt 
2 tsp. vanilla (optional) 
Instructions 
Grease the bottom of the Instant Pot container with butter or coconut oil. 
Soak all but the maple syrup, salt and vanilla overnight in the Instant Pot. 
In the morning just give it a quick stir and set the Instant Pot to 7 minutes on Manual, high pressure. 
Don’t forget to close the valve! 
It will take about 15-20 minutes to get up to pressure. 
When the timer is done, allow for a natural pressure release of 10 minutes. (Tip: set a timer for 35 minutes when you turn the IP on and that's about when it should be done.) The oats won't look done at first, too liquidy, but as you stir it all sort of absorbs the liquid and it's perfect. 
Stir in the salt, maple syrup, and vanilla and serve with milk. (Tip: Put these ingredients next to the IP the night before so you remember!) 
Notes 
** The Instant Pot will automatically switch to “warm” and cause the pressure to release slowly when the cook time is over. The oatmeal will hold nicely for you whenever you’re ready to eat – which is great in our home as kids leave for school at two different times and our 4-year-old often sleeps in, so we might have four different times that people are ready to eat! 

** If you want to do even less in the morning, feel free to include the syrup and salt in the overnight soak and skip the vanilla. It’s a pretty flexible recipe!! 

** Leaving out the salt, by the way, is just an old-fashioned way to soak that some say can make whole grains more digestible. More on soaking grains here. 

** I bet you could save on prep time and use a cup or two of applesauce instead of the apples, or just have your kids cut them up like we do in the Kids Cook Real Food eCourse! 

** Dairy-free with coconut milk should work fine too – just use 3 cups coconut milk and 3 cups water, or one can full-fat coconut milk and 4 cups water. You don’t need the yogurt. 

** No fresh cranberries? I buy them at the holiday season and freeze right in the bag for later, but you could certainly use dried cranberries or cherries. Yum! 

Yum 
You can pop this into your Plan to Eat dashboard and add a “prep note” that says “soak oats” the night before, and it will always remind you in your calendar so you don’t miss out on breakfast because you forgot to prep! Woo hoo! 
Nighttime and Michigan-winter breakfasts are horrible photography moments, so ignore the lighting on these. You know I really made the recipe, right? Winking smile Your IP will look like this at night with cute floating cranberries: 

The Instant Pot makes breakfast easy with this Steel Cut Apple Cranberry Oatmeal recipe! 

And this in the morning – delicious, creamy, hearty oatmeal with plenty of flavor that will satiate you until lunchtime, no problem: 

The Instant Pot makes breakfast easy with this Steel Cut Apple Cranberry Oatmeal recipe! 

We like to serve with milk! 

Traditional Cooking School Instant Pot Sourdough Cornbread Pressure Cooker Recipe 
My dear friend Wardee at Traditional Cooking School can do just about anything with her Instant Pot – cakes, bread, main dishes, veggies, even “stacking” multiple kinds of food at once! 

She’s offering a free sourdough cornbread Instant Pot recipe! 

This cornbread is delicious, nutritious, super easy to make, and it only needs 12 minutes of cook time. 

GET THE FREE INSTANT POT SOURDOUGH CORNBREAD RECIPE 
The Instant Pot makes breakfast easy with this Steel Cut Apple Cranberry Oatmeal recipe! 

Have you ever used an Instant Pot or pressure cooker? What questions do you have that I can include in the series? 
Cooking Real Food with an Instant Pot Series 

While you’re waiting for your Instant pot to arrive, you might check out my Grain-free Pumpkin Pie Breakfast Porridge.  for more Instant Pot recipes, tips, and tricks this month – you’ll be able to get to them all by clicking the image above. 

Plan to Eat is a current sponsor receiving their complimentary mention. 

Facebook55TwitterGoogle+Pinterest 
55 
SHARES 
Click here for my disclaimer and advertising disclosure - affiliate links in this post will earn commission based on sales, but it doesn't change your price. 


START RECIPE

Simple Paleo Sweet Potato, Broccoli, and Egg Breakfast Hash Recipe 
Haley Stewart (Contributing Writer) 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

This post is from contributing writer Haley Stewart from Carrots for Michaelmas. 

This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 

I recently took my six-year-old to the pediatrician for his annual check up. The doctor was shocked to see on his chart that the last time he was in the office was his five-year-old check up–a full year ago. “You’re the healthiest kid I’ve seen all week!” she said. 

I started to wrack my brain to remember when the last time I took ANY of my three kids in other than their well-child visits. What a change from last year! 


A year and a half ago it felt like we lived at the pediatrician’s office. The kids all seemed to pass around virus after virus and I kept getting tonsillitis that wouldn’t go away without miserable rounds of antibiotics. It felt like our whole family was sick for months. 

“How did we get so healthy this year?” I ed my husband the other day. Sure, we’ve had our fair share of mild colds now and then. (And my daughters are currently getting over a cough that’s been bugging them this week.) But we haven’t been in that miserable cycle of illness that we used to go through every year between November and February. 

There were two changes to our lifestyle that we could pinpoint: Less sugar and healthier breakfasts. Now don’t get me wrong. Even kids eating a fantastic healthy diet get sick sometimes. I am well aware that we’ve been given a nice dose of luck this year along with our efforts to be healthy, but I do believe those two changes have made a big difference for us. 

Goodbye, Sugar
The older I get, the worse I feel when I have processed sugar. I can very easily fall into being a sugar addict and I have no willpower when sweets are around. None at all. So, our only option is to keep sugary foods out of the house. 

It comes as no surprise that our kids are much better at eating nourishing meals when they’re not filling up on sweets. They still have treats at grandma’s house and I definitely bribe them with the lollipops at Trader Joe’s to survive our weekly grocery store run. But dessert at home is a real treat, not part of our typical weekly meal plan. 

Last fall in order to kill my sugar addiction I did a Whole30. (I know Katie’s husband is doing a Whole30 during Lent this year, too). So oatmeal, pancakes, and french toast were officially off the menu and we had to branch out. 

Since we have backyard chickens, we’ve always eaten eggs for breakfast on a regular basis, but we also got in the habit of just putting some steel cut oats on the stove on busy mornings. Cutting out grains meant that we needed to broaden our high protein breakfast horizons beyond our go-to bacon and fried eggs. 

This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 

Hello, Veggies 
One of the benefits of doing a Whole30 is not just cutting out grains and processed foods and sugars, but adding in plenty of vegetables. This was a challenge for me because veggies in the morning never seemed very appealing and I would eat pancakes every morning if they didn’t give me a sugar crash by 11am. But veggies with every meal is really a must during a Whole30 (as grains, dairy, and legumes are out). 


My husband started sauteeing spinach on the side, adding mushrooms, broccoli, or kale to scrambled eggs, and making sweet potatoes instead of grits, etc. (But don’t feel too sorry for us, when not Whole30-ing we definitely do the south proud with our consumption of cheese grits.) 

After a couple of weeks the extra veggies and protein just became a habit! And I think the combination of more veggies and less sugar gave our immune systems a little boost. 

(For more ideas on how to get more veggies in breakfast, Debra wrote a fantastic post of creative ways to add them in.) 

This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 

Avoiding Egg Boredom
We eat eggs almost every morning (in fact, I can’t remember the last time I didn’t eat an egg with breakfast), but so far we aren’t bored with them. Adding different sides helps keep things interesting, but we also switch up how we cook our eggs. Try something different and mix it up! 

Our favorite ways to eat eggs in the morning are: 

Soft-boiled eggs. I’ve never been a huge fan of hard-boiled eggs but soft-boiled eggs are a different story. The yolk is a little bit soft and the texture is delicious. Our kids love peeling them (we just make sure there’s a bowl handy for them to drop the egg shells in the middle of the table) and I think they look fancy on top of fried potatoes or sauteed veggies. 
Egg Frittata. Similar to an omelette or crustless quiche, a frittata is a combination of eggs and whatever else you want to add. My husband Daniel often uses whatever breakfast meats like bacon or sausage we have on hand, plus veggies that are in season in the garden. You could add sweet peppers, kale, broccoli, spinach, tomatoes, you name it. Sometimes we add cheese on top or even mix in grits or rice if we have some leftover from another meal. Including pieces of veggies too small to be picked out is a great way to sneak some extra greens into your family! 
Poached eggs. It takes a little practice, but poached eggs are a treat. 
Fried eggs. Just add a little bacon grease to the pan, fry and flip. Fried eggs are our go-to breakfast, but that doesn’t make them mundane. Add some bacon or sausage on the side and a fruit salad and voila! 
Scrambled eggs. We add cheese (and sometimes cream cheese) and our kids go nuts. 
Veggie and Egg Hash. About a year ago my husband started cooking sweet potato and egg hash with veggies and sometimes sausage or bacon and now we eat it several times a week. It’s just so good! 
This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 


This recipe is one version of our typical breakfast (and it’s a meatless version since it’s Lent). 

5.0 from 1 reviews 
Paleo Sweet Potato, Broccoli, and Egg Hash 
 

Print 
Prep time 
15 mins
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
45 mins 
 
Author: Haley Stewart 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
1 lb. sweet potatoes, diced 
1 large head of broccoli cut into small pieces 
5 eggs 
Bacon grease (you can substitute other fats or oils, but you can't beat the flavor!) 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Instructions 
Heat the bacon grease over medium heat. Add the diced potatoes. Stir occasionally and be patient! The temperature can be just a smidge over medium. The idea is that you need to heat them long enough to cook through without burning the outside. You may need to add more bacon grease. I usually end up using about 2 tablespoons. 
Once the inside is cooked and the outside is just beginning to crisp, add the broccoli. Cook for a few minutes longer. 
Crack the eggs over the vegetables. Let them cook for a minute and then stir. Cook and stir until the eggs are done. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Enjoy! (And add chili sauce if you want to be adventurous!) 
Yum 
Katie here – gluten-free can be confusing but it doesn’t have to be hard! I’m thrilled to share a FREE gluten-free cheat sheet mini eBook to help get you started! 
This is perfect if you’ve just been told you need a GF diet, if you have a friend or family member eating GF and you’d like to cook for them, or if you’re just curious what it’s all about! 
Free gluten-free guide for rookies 
YES! I WANT THE FREE GF CHEAT SHEET! 
This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 


How do you keep from getting bored with eggs for breakfast? Any recipe suggestions? 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE

2 Grain-Free (and FUN!) Breakfast Recipes for Kids 
Haley Stewart (Contributing Writer) 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Fun, Grain-Free Breakfast Ideas for Kids! What kid wouldn't love Dinosaur Nests or Breakfast Boats? Check out these FUN breakfast recipes that will be eaten in no time flat.This post is from contributing writer Haley Stewart of Carrots for Michaelmas. 

As a mom of three small children, starting out with a healthy breakfast always makes me feel better about our day. If lunch and dinner don’t meet my perfect vision of healthy eating, at least we hit a home run with one meal, right? 

Getting Kids to Eat Healthy Breakfasts 
Since focusing a lot of our efforts on healthy breakfasts, we’ve noticed a big difference in our family’s general health. We’re lucky that none of our kids have been particularly picky eaters, but we also try to encourage them to eat a wide variety of foods by not catering too much to the picky phases all kids cycle through. We do NOT make multiple meals for kids who don’t like what we’re serving. 

Our kids eat what we eat as soon as they can eat solids. Eating the healthy meal they’re served is a pretty established rule in our house so we rarely have to argue about enforcing it, but occasionally we do face the “I won’t eat what you just made but I will  for a snack as soon as the dishes are cleared” phenomenon. And that makes me a little crazy, so we nip it in the bud. 

Fun, Grain-Free Breakfast Ideas for Kids! What kid wouldn't love Dinosaur Nests or Breakfast Boats? Check out these FUN breakfast recipes that will be eaten in no time flat. 

Tips for Encouraging Healthy Eaters 
Don’t say yes to snacks just before mealtimes. We often make this mistake and then our kids aren’t hungry for the meal we prepared! 
Eat around the table as a family. Mealtime should be more than ingesting calories. By nurturing special time around the table, kids will enjoy mealtime more. 
If you grow any vegetables (or even just have some kitchen herbs) involving the kids in growing and harvesting the veggies makes them much more excited about eating them! 
Open up the kitchen and let kids assist in the cooking preparation. They will be more likely to eat what’s prepared, even if there are ingredients they don’t usually love. 
Encourage variety, but be sensitive to the major dislikes. Our kids don’t like spicy foods so we keep the meal mild and then add extra sriracha if needed to our own plates. 
When eating foods they don’t love, reward a “good try.” I distinctly remember how hard it was to choke down my green beans when I was little. If our kids have a least a couple bites of the brussel sprouts, they can move on to the other options provided. 
Put un-favorite ingredients (for our kids, that’s onions) on the side if possible. 
If they don’t eat any of a meal but  for a snack soon afterwards, offer to heat up their leftovers rather than provide a snack. That way you avoid hungry kiddos but also get the healthy food in their tummies. We learned this the hard way when my oldest kid was on a bananas only streak and would refuse his meals and then fill up on bananas all day long. It took a couple of days to get out of the habit, but now we say yes to an after-meal banana if the plate is nearly clean and everybody’s happy. 
That being said, none of our kids have health problems that would require more cajoling to get the calories they need and they’ve never gone on a hunger strike because they didn’t like something. So we’ve had it pretty easy. 

And that’s just what works for the kids in our family. I have friends who have had a much more challenging time encouraging their kids to eat healthy meals and what works for us totally didn’t work for them. So, every kid and every family is different. I hope some of these tips will help you figure out what works in your home! 

Make It Fun 
We try to cook healthy meals that our kids like to eat to avoid the arguing or snack requests at 8:30 am. And in addition to the tips above, one way to encourage this is to make the presentation FUN. My husband is much better at this than I am! 

Presentation matters for grown-ups, of course, but kids are especially susceptible to the “it looks gross, it must taste gross” mentality and very gullible as far as the “it looks awesome, it must taste awesome” trick goes. So we try to make breakfast look a little awesome sometimes. More fun=full tummies + less grumbling. 

Fun, Grain-Free Breakfast Ideas for Kids! What kid wouldn't love Dinosaur Nests or Breakfast Boats? Check out these FUN breakfast recipes that will be eaten in no time flat.So I give you the Dinosaur Nest! Sure, it’s just an egg sitting in the middle of a tomato and avocado salad. But if you call it a Dinosaur Nest, you’ve piqued a 5-year-old’s interest. 

Letting the kids peel their own hard boiled eggs can also add to the fun. We add homemade tortilla chips on the side and our kids love anything they can eat with chips so this goes over surprisingly well. I love this on days when I’m craving something fresh tasting but not heavy. 

Dinosaur Nests 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Total time 
5 mins 
 
Author: Daniel and Haley Stewart 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 5 
Ingredients 
2 tomatoes, diced 
2 avocados, peeled, pitted, diced 
½ c. cilantro, roughly chopped 
Juice from ½ lime 
1 tsp. cumin 
salt to taste 
5 hard boiled eggs 
Tortilla chips (optional) 
Instructions 
Mix the tomatoes, avocados, cilantro, lime juice, cumin and salt in a bowl and stir together. 
Add a little of the avocado and tomato salad to each plate. 
Nestle an egg in the center and add chips and cilantro around the plate. 

Yum 
Katie here – gluten-free can be confusing but it doesn’t have to be hard! I’m thrilled to share a FREE gluten-free cheat sheet mini eBook to help get you started!
This is perfect if you’ve just been told you need a GF diet, if you have a friend or family member eating GF and you’d like to cook for them, or if you’re just curious what it’s all about! 
Free gluten-free guide for rookies 
YES! I WANT THE FREE GF CHEAT SHEET! 
And what’s more fun than breakfast? Breakfast in a boat. My husband made these little breakfast boats as a way to use up some leftover baked potatoes and they were a big hit and a great way to sneak in some leafy greens (which are sometimes controversial ingredients with my kids). 

Fun, Grain-Free Breakfast Ideas for Kids! What kid wouldn't love Dinosaur Nests or Breakfast Boats? Check out these FUN breakfast recipes that will be eaten in no time flat. 

Breakfast Boats 
 

Print 
Prep time 
2 mins 
Cook time 
10 mins 
Total time 
12 mins 
 
Author: Daniel and Haley Stewart 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
4 baked potatoes, cooked 
4 thick cut slices of bacon 
4 eggs 
2 handfuls of greens (swiss chard or kale work well) 
Salt and pepper to taste 
Instructions 
Carefully cut the potatoes in half lengthwise and scoop out the insides into a large bowl. Set the potato “shells” aside. 
Fry the bacon in a sauté pan until crispy, set the cooked bacon aside. Meanwhile, chop the greens up but save a few of the best leaves for sails. 
Toss the greens into the pan with the bacon fat. Cook the greens until they’ve softened (about 3 minutes for kale). Then add the potato insides you scooped out earlier. Since the potato is already cooked, you don’t have to sauté much longer. But I like to get the outside of the potato a little crispy (about 4 minutes). Add more bacon grease or other oil if necessary. 
Crack the eggs into the pan. Stir everything and cook until eggs are done. 
Scoop the egg/potato mixture into your potato shells. If you want to be fun, make little sails out of toothpicks and greens. 

Yum 
Wishing your family healthy meals, no grumbling, and lots of fun. Thanks for sharing this one with friends using the buttons below! 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 

START RECIPE

Perfect Blueberry Coconut Flour Pancake Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Perfect Grain-free Blueberry Pancakes Recipe. These grain-free pancakes are as easy as they are delicious! No more bland coconut flour pancakes...plenty of flavor, lift, and Paleo-legal to boot. 

I’m feeling it already. 

You know how you hate heading to the kitchen by 4:00 on gorgeous summer days? 

It’s tempting to spend all my time outside or doing spring cleaning and decluttering and throw cereal, PBJs on store bread and frozen pizzas at the family for a week straight. 

But this summer I’m planning to serve huge, hot breakfasts every day instead. 

And I can’t wait until blueberries are in season so this blueberry pancakes recipe can be a regular feature. 

Grain Free Pancakes Continual Disappointment 
I’d been kind of down on coconut flour (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) pancakes in the five years that we’ve dabbled in grain-free living. 

It seemed that the ones I tried that were “just pancakes” using coconut flour, whether they were from a Paleo blog or not, were pretty much “just boring.” 

They had no flavor. 

The texture was blah. 

They just didn’t do it for me. 

I stuck with my favorite orange vegetable-rich grain-free pancakes as our standby and mixed it up sometimes with the famous banana Paleo pancakes from time to time. Both grain-free pancake recipes use coconut flour, optionally, but it’s not the centerpiece at all, just a supporting player. 

This post is sponsored by Plan to Eat, as is my summertime “big breakfast” meal planning! 

Finding a New Favorite 
Perfect Grain-free Blueberry Pancakes Recipe. These grain-free pancakes are as easy as they are delicious! No more bland coconut flour pancakes...plenty of flavor, lift and paleo-legal to boot 

This spring as we were easing off the Whole30, however, I wanted to celebrate Easter with something fun. 

We didn’t want to jump into any new food groups very quickly for my husband, because we wanted to  and learn one food at a time so that the “elimination diet” aspect of the Whole30 was made worthwhile. 

When my kids put in a special request for blueberry pancakes for Easter Saturday morning, I knew that would be perfect – I could stick with grain-free, dairy-free, sugar-free and only amend the Whole30 protocol by making the actual pancakes (which aren’t allowed on the Whole30 simply because there’s a “no baking” rule to help break people of their cravings). 

I pulled out the coconut flour pancake recipe I’d made previously a few times and looked at it sideways, wrinkling my nose. 

My kids were so excited about blueberry pancakes, but I just couldn’t work up the enthusiasm. 

It was time to get creative in the kitchen. 

By the time I made the recipe what we needed by adding a little sweetness, a little bite, some lift and some flavor – not to mention the blueberries themselves! – I ended up with a totally new recipe. 

Perfect Grain-free Blueberry Pancakes Recipe. These grain-free pancakes are as easy as they are delicious! No more bland coconut flour pancakes...plenty of flavor, lift, and Paleo-legal to boot. 

And was my experiment a success? 

Oh, yes, most definitely. 

They were so good, we had them again the very next day for Easter Sunday brunch after church! (Which also tells you they are pretty easy to make, because usually I’d shoot for a “make-ahead” breakfast for a meal after a holiday Mass.) 

Leftovers have been hard to come by. 

I’ve made the pancakes a handful of times more already, doing some A/B testing on some of the ingredients to see what quantities hit the sweet spot just so. 

Katie here – gluten-free can be confusing but it doesn’t have to be hard! I’m thrilled to share a FREE gluten-free cheat sheet mini eBook to help get you started! 
This is perfect if you’ve just been told you need a GF diet, if you have a friend or family member eating GF and you’d like to cook for them, or if you’re just curious what it’s all about! 
Free gluten-free guide for rookies 
YES! I WANT THE FREE GF CHEAT SHEET! 
Now I’ve got some enthusiasm – and I’m totally geeked to share the perfected recipe with you! 

As soon as I grab it from the recipe holder in the kitchen – since every time I bring it to my desk to type it up, it makes its way back to the stove before I get a chance – these perfect coconut flour pancakes will be all yours. 

Perfect Grain-free Blueberry Pancakes Recipe. These grain-free pancakes are as easy as they are delicious! No more bland coconut flour pancakes...plenty of flavor, lift, and Paleo-legal to boot. 

5.0 from 2 reviews 
Grain-Free Paleo Blueberry Pancake Recipe 
 

Print 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
15 mins 
Total time 
25 mins 
 
I always thought coconut flour (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) pancakes were bland and boring, until I fixed that problem with these delicious grain-free blueberry pancakes. Super easy, kid-friendly. 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 16-18 pancakes 
Ingredients 
4 eggs 
¼ c. unsweetened applesauce 
¼ c. coconut milk (or whole milk) 
½ banana, mashed (optional) 
¼ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. nutmeg 
¼ tsp. baking soda 
1 tsp. apple cider vinegar 
¼ c. melted coconut oil 
3-4 Tbs. packed coconut flour 
½-3/4 c. blueberries 
Instructions 
Prep note: If your coconut oil is solid, melt it. I like to use my metal measuring cup right on my griddle as it preheats so I don't dirty another pot! 
In a medium-sized bowl, mix all the ingredients except the coconut oil, coconut flour and blueberries. 
(I like to use a tool that can mash my banana right in the bowl.) 
Heat a cast iron griddle orenameled cast iron pan (or whatever you like to cook pancakes on) over medium heat. 
Whisk in the melted coconut oil quickly - it tends to solidify when it hangs out with the cold eggs too long. 
Add the coconut flour, starting with 3 tablespoons.  for clumps. 
Whisk thoroughly. 
Grease your cooking surface with ample fat (coconut oil, tallow or lard are great choices). 
Ladle out 3-inch pancakes, adding blueberries (or huckleberries, even better!) right into each pancake. 
Over medium-low or medium heat, cook a minute or so, until bubbles form on top, then flip and cook another 30 seconds or so until brown on the bottom. 
Notes 
* Avoiding sweeteners? Try with natural applesauce on top.  
* Use a whole (small) banana for a little more sweetness if you're not going to add maple syrup. It's just a balance between adding the sweet and not getting a banana pancake, taste-wise.  
* Start with 3 packed tablespoons of coconut flour. If you'd like a bit thicker pancake, go to 4 Tbs. (which is ¼ cup). Both taste good and don't get dry! 
* If you're new to coconut flour, it's nothing like what you're used to! Be sure to check out How to Bake Grain-free with Coconut Flour for all the tips, why I tell you pack it, and the best prices on the web. 
* If you grab the coconut milk or coconut flour at Vitacost and it's your first order, you can get $10 off by clicking HERE. 

Yum 
Click HERE to find this recipe on Plan to Eat to add to your recipe box. Not a member yet? They’ve got a 30-day free trial so you can test it out! Be sure to look at the KS group, where we’re pushing 200K real food recipes, all ready to be dragged into your weekly menu plan. You’ll have all 30 days planned before you know it… 

Why I’ll Push for a 3-Course Breakfast Every Day This Summer 
Perfect Grain-free Blueberry Pancakes Recipe. These grain-free pancakes are as easy as they are delicious! No more bland coconut flour pancakes...plenty of flavor, lift, and Paleo-legal to boot. 

Crazy, right? 

Why would I want to spend my precious mornings cooking over a hot stove? 

I’m trying something new – since I DO feel that distaste for being in the kitchen almost as much as my kids do when they have to come inside and get a summer foot wash, I figured why not frontload the day? 

If we have a huge breakfast, a couple things (hopefully) will happen: 

We might be able to skip morning snack, have an early-ish lunch and a nice afternoon snack. Instead of feeding the household FIVE times a day, I may get away with four, which would be nice. I get tired of offering snack choices. 
We’ll have a hot meal under our belts and could get away with some cold dinners more easily. That means I don’t have to come in the kitchen so soon – yay! 
It’s cooler in the mornings, usually, so “slaving over a hot stove” won’t be as annoying. 
I’m also hoping that being in the kitchen will allow me to prep some slow cooker meals, cut veggies for dinner, and simply do some of the things that I’d usually do between 4-6 p.m. so I can just keep playing once we’re all outside. 
We’ll be well fueled for our day, and I’m hoping that the appetites will allow for smaller dinners. I think that’s the healthier way to eat anyway, timewise – bigger meals at breakfast and lunch and then a smaller meal at dinner since your body has less time to digest it before the restorative rest of the overnight sleep. 
Maybe we can knock out dishes midday and not have such a disaster of a kitchen each night at 9 p.m. when we’re feeling run down already. It’s beyond time for us to train our two older kids, 10 and 7, to do dishes!!! 
It will also be easier to involve the kids in making breakfast, since I won’t be dragging them away from play that they’re already deeply invested in. Our neighborhood doesn’t really get going until 10 a.m., so we’re going to do kitchen work, practice piano, and some academic and craft work immediately after we wake up. (I think my theme for summer will be “maximize your mornings!”) 
With more “courses” at breakfast, I can get some veggies in to frontload the day on nutrients, also. Summer is a great time to have fresh vegetables in abundance at every meal!
The trick will be this – I’m not all that great at planning ahead for breakfasts. 

I do it, but it’s usually only a day or two in advance. 

So my challenge will be to plan my breakfast meals as if they were dinner meals, a week in advance, and make sure I shop to have all the necessary ingredients. 

Enter Plan to Eat! 
PTE already has built in space for both breakfast and lunch planning, and every recipe I drag to my weekly meal plan will automatically populate the shopping list on my phone, so no matter when I shop during the hectic days of summer, I’ll know what I need for the next 7 days. 

Time to get my favorite breakfast recipes into my PTE recipe box (each one takes about 30 seconds) and find some new ones to try in the KS Group. 

I’m open to suggestions! And I know I’ll be planning these delicious (and easy!) blueberry Paleo pancakes often, especially when the berries are fresh in season. 

Do you think my “frontload the morning” experiment will work out as well as my new coconut flour pancakes did? Would you consider doing it? 
Pin for Later 
Perfect Grain-free Blueberry Pancakes Recipe. These grain-free pancakes are as easy as they are delicious! No more bland coconut flour pancakes...plenty of flavor, lift, and Paleo-legal to boot.Disclosure: Plan to Eat is a longtime sponsor of KS. They paid for this post because they value helping people eat real food and sharing new ideas about meal planning – the team at PTE knows it’s almost impossible to keep eating right if you don’t plan ahead. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Things That Actually Scare Adults 
Thrifty DIY Diva 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

How To Protect Your Pet from Winter's Chill 
5 Minutes For Mom 

How To Prep Your Car For Winter Road Trips 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 

START RECIPE

Simple Paleo Sweet Potato, Broccoli, and Egg Breakfast Hash Recipe 
Haley Stewart (Contributing Writer) 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

201 
This post is from contributing writer Haley Stewart from Carrots for Michaelmas. 

This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 

I recently took my six-year-old to the pediatrician for his annual check up. The doctor was shocked to see on his chart that the last time he was in the office was his five-year-old check up–a full year ago. “You’re the healthiest kid I’ve seen all week!” she said. 

I started to wrack my brain to remember when the last time I took ANY of my three kids in other than their well-child visits. What a change from last year! 


A year and a half ago it felt like we lived at the pediatrician’s office. The kids all seemed to pass around virus after virus and I kept getting tonsillitis that wouldn’t go away without miserable rounds of antibiotics. It felt like our whole family was sick for months. 

“How did we get so healthy this year?” I ed my husband the other day. Sure, we’ve had our fair share of mild colds now and then. (And my daughters are currently getting over a cough that’s been bugging them this week.) But we haven’t been in that miserable cycle of illness that we used to go through every year between November and February. 

There were two changes to our lifestyle that we could pinpoint: Less sugar and healthier breakfasts. Now don’t get me wrong. Even kids eating a fantastic healthy diet get sick sometimes. I am well aware that we’ve been given a nice dose of luck this year along with our efforts to be healthy, but I do believe those two changes have made a big difference for us. 

Goodbye, Sugar 
The older I get, the worse I feel when I have processed sugar. I can very easily fall into being a sugar addict and I have no willpower when sweets are around. None at all. So, our only option is to keep sugary foods out of the house. 

It comes as no surprise that our kids are much better at eating nourishing meals when they’re not filling up on sweets. They still have treats at grandma’s house and I definitely bribe them with the lollipops at Trader Joe’s to survive our weekly grocery store run. But dessert at home is a real treat, not part of our typical weekly meal plan. 

Last fall in order to kill my sugar addiction I did a Whole30. (I know Katie’s husband is doing a Whole30 during Lent this year, too). So oatmeal, pancakes, and french toast were officially off the menu and we had to branch out. 

Since we have backyard chickens, we’ve always eaten eggs for breakfast on a regular basis, but we also got in the habit of just putting some steel cut oats on the stove on busy mornings. Cutting out grains meant that we needed to broaden our high protein breakfast horizons beyond our go-to bacon and fried eggs. 

This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 

Hello, Veggies 
One of the benefits of doing a Whole30 is not just cutting out grains and processed foods and sugars, but adding in plenty of vegetables. This was a challenge for me because veggies in the morning never seemed very appealing and I would eat pancakes every morning if they didn’t give me a sugar crash by 11am. But veggies with every meal is really a must during a Whole30 (as grains, dairy, and legumes are out). 


My husband started sauteeing spinach on the side, adding mushrooms, broccoli, or kale to scrambled eggs, and making sweet potatoes instead of grits, etc. (But don’t feel too sorry for us, when not Whole30-ing we definitely do the south proud with our consumption of cheese grits.) 

After a couple of weeks the extra veggies and protein just became a habit! And I think the combination of more veggies and less sugar gave our immune systems a little boost. 

(For more ideas on how to get more veggies in breakfast, Debra wrote a fantastic post of creative ways to add them in.) 

This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 

Avoiding Egg Boredom 
We eat eggs almost every morning (in fact, I can’t remember the last time I didn’t eat an egg with breakfast), but so far we aren’t bored with them. Adding different sides helps keep things interesting, but we also switch up how we cook our eggs. Try something different and mix it up! 

Our favorite ways to eat eggs in the morning are: 

Soft-boiled eggs. I’ve never been a huge fan of hard-boiled eggs but soft-boiled eggs are a different story. The yolk is a little bit soft and the texture is delicious. Our kids love peeling them (we just make sure there’s a bowl handy for them to drop the egg shells in the middle of the table) and I think they look fancy on top of fried potatoes or sauteed veggies. 
Egg Frittata. Similar to an omelette or crustless quiche, a frittata is a combination of eggs and whatever else you want to add. My husband Daniel often uses whatever breakfast meats like bacon or sausage we have on hand, plus veggies that are in season in the garden. You could add sweet peppers, kale, broccoli, spinach, tomatoes, you name it. Sometimes we add cheese on top or even mix in grits or rice if we have some leftover from another meal. Including pieces of veggies too small to be picked out is a great way to sneak some extra greens into your family! 
Poached eggs. It takes a little practice, but poached eggs are a treat. 
Fried eggs. Just add a little bacon grease to the pan, fry and flip. Fried eggs are our go-to breakfast, but that doesn’t make them mundane. Add some bacon or sausage on the side and a fruit salad and voila! 
Scrambled eggs. We add cheese (and sometimes cream cheese) and our kids go nuts.
Veggie and Egg Hash. About a year ago my husband started cooking sweet potato and egg hash with veggies and sometimes sausage or bacon and now we eat it several times a week. It’s just so good! 
This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 


This recipe is one version of our typical breakfast (and it’s a meatless version since it’s Lent). 

5.0 from 1 reviews 
Paleo Sweet Potato, Broccoli, and Egg Hash 
 

Print 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
45 mins 
 
Author: Haley Stewart 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
1 lb. sweet potatoes, diced 
1 large head of broccoli cut into small pieces 
5 eggs  
Bacon grease (you can substitute other fats or oils, but you can't beat the flavor!)
Salt and pepper to taste 
Instructions 
Heat the bacon grease over medium heat. Add the diced potatoes. Stir occasionally and be patient! The temperature can be just a smidge over medium. The idea is that you need to heat them long enough to cook through without burning the outside. You may need to add more bacon grease. I usually end up using about 2 tablespoons. 
Once the inside is cooked and the outside is just beginning to crisp, add the broccoli. Cook for a few minutes longer. 
Crack the eggs over the vegetables. Let them cook for a minute and then stir. Cook and stir until the eggs are done. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Enjoy! (And add chili sauce if you want to be adventurous!) 
Yum 
Katie here – gluten-free can be confusing but it doesn’t have to be hard! I’m thrilled to share a FREE gluten-free cheat sheet mini eBook to help get you started! 
This is perfect if you’ve just been told you need a GF diet, if you have a friend or family member eating GF and you’d like to cook for them, or if you’re just curious what it’s all about! 
Free gluten-free guide for rookies 
YES! I WANT THE FREE GF CHEAT SHEET! 
This easy breakfast hash recipe is perfect for your Paleo or Whole30 diet. No reason to get sick of eggs - yum! 


How do you keep from getting bored with eggs for breakfast? Any recipe suggestions? 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

10 DIY Christmas Ornaments You Can Make with Your Kids 
Blissfully Domestic 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

CoSchedule Review - Is It Worth It? 
A Little Insanity 

Target's new fragrance line is vegan and full of essential… 
Well + Good 

How To Prep Your Car For Winter Road Trips 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Free Green and White Christmas Gift Tags 
An Oregon Cottage 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest201 


START RECIPE

Green Veggie Pancakes for St. Patrick’s Day (no food coloring allowed!) 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Get a GREEN start to St. Patrick's Day with these nourishing veggie pancakes. No food coloring! Just real ingredients.Ten years ago, I told one of my third graders that she couldn’t possibly be allergic to food coloring. 

It was March 2nd, Dr. Seuss’s birthday, and I had gotten eggs in green shells from a hobby farmer and thought it would be hilarious to add green food coloring and play it up like the green eggs were actually green eggs on the inside too. 


My student kept ing if it was really green food coloring because she was allergic, and I told her she must have been mistaken, that people aren’t allergic to food coloring, but that of course she didn’t have to eat it if she wasn’t interested. 

I still feel guilty about that. 

Oh, if I knew then, what I know now! 

St. Patrick's Day Veggie Pancakes with NO food coloring. Make your vegetable pancakes totally GREEN for a fun St. Patrick's Day breakfast - but with NO food coloring messing up your kids' brains. Healthy, nourishing, a great way to start the day. 

I’m guessing in hindsight that food coloring negatively impacted her behavior so her mom had ed her to avoid it and offered the excuse of “I’m allergic,” to explain it to imbeciles like ME who didn’t know any better and weren’t really listening anyway. 

Sigh. 

Now I know about the many potential hazards of artificial colors for kids and wouldn’t dream of adding it to food, nor would I ever do a food-based activity without warning parents in advance (if I was still a teacher). 

Besides that, it’s not like it’s that hard to make things green without the help of food scientists and a little bottle that will stain your fingers for five days. 

St. Patrick's Day Veggie Pancakes with NO food coloring. Make your vegetable pancakes totally GREEN for a fun St. Patrick's Day breakfast - but with NO food coloring messing up your kids' brains. Healthy, nourishing, a great way to start the day. 


This recipe has been posted before with the “green” as an option: for St. Patrick’s Day fun, it’s a must. And don’t we all need to have a little fun in the kitchen sometimes, since we probably spend five thousand hours a day in there? 

You betcha. 

And these veggie-laden “latke” potato pancakes make a hearty breakfast or side dish at any meal. (If making for breakfast, you can grate/shred the vegetables in advance the night before.) 

Yum: 

St. Patrick's Day Veggie Pancakes with NO food coloring. Make your vegetable pancakes totally GREEN for a fun St. Patrick's Day breakfast - but with NO food coloring messing up your kids' brains. Healthy, nourishing, a great way to start the day. 

Potato Vegetable Pancakes 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 15 pancakes 
Ingredients 
3 large potatoes (about 4 cups worth, shredded) 
2-3 cups shredded sweet potato 
optional other veggies - you can replace some of the white potatoes with zucchini, carrots, or other root vegetables. 
a few BIG handfuls of spinach 
3 eggs 
2 Tbs. flour (any - white, whole wheat, brown rice, ETC.) 
1 medium onion 
1 tsp. salt 
oil for frying (refined coconut oil is excellent) 
Instructions 
Wash, peel (optional) and grate the raw potatoes (all). I use a food processor! Salt the gratings and allow to sit for 10-60 minutes (depending on how long you have before the meal), then drain the excess water that accumulates at the bottom of the bowl. If you're hurrying and must skip this step entirely, the pancakes will survive. 
Food process (with the regular blade) or finely chop onion and add to shredded veggies. 
Food process the spinach and mix it in. 
Beat eggs well and add to the bowl (or just beat on top and then mix in). If it's green, you're good to go! 
Add salt and flour. Mix well. 
Heat oil in frying pan or electric griddle at about 350F. I love my cast iron griddle (found on Amazon) and use it multiple times a day. 
Spoon potato mixture into hot oil and flatten with spoon or spatula to create 3-4” circles. 
Add a spoonful of the liquid that collects at the bottom of the mixing bowl right in the center. It's mostly egg and will remind you of a fried egg around the edges of the pancake. 
This helps to hold everything together nicely so you don't end up just making veggie hashbrowns. Flip when the underside is golden brown, about 2 minutes. The second side won't cook quite as evenly brown, but when it starts looking like toasty hashbrowns, they're done (about 3-5 minutes). 
Remove to a plate: drain with paper towel if necessary. 
Traditional toppings include sour cream or applesauce, but they're also good with real maple syrup, homemade yogurt in place of the sour cream, or even ketchup. My son uses 3 of the 4, which makes my husband cringe, but hey – to each his own toppings as long as they're eating their vegetables! 

The spinach disappears quickly when you food process it – so a “few handfuls” means a LOT. Make sure you use enough so that the eggy liquid turns green, like this: 

St. Patrick's Day Veggie Pancakes with NO food coloring. Make your vegetable pancakes totally GREEN for a fun St. Patrick's Day breakfast - but with NO food coloring messing up your kids' brains. Healthy, nourishing, a great way to start the day. 


If you have a food processor, kids are great helpers to feed vegetables into the tube to shred, and it’s really a quick and fun job to prep! Be bold with your veggie choices, friends – you never know what a kid will enjoy. 

How (or why) do you avoid food coloring? 
Get a GREEN start to St. Patrick's Day with these nourishing veggie pancakes. No food coloring! Just real ingredients.Other St. Patrick’s Day Foods: 
Cabbage Rolls – UNrolled and in the slow cooker, takes only 15 mins to throw together! 
Shepherd’s Pie, real food style 
Pin It!Get a GREEN start to St. Patrick's Day with these nourishing veggie pancakes. No food coloring! Just real ingredients. 

 
 START RECIPE

 “Tastes Like Pizza” Breakfast Hash Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

32 
Doing a Whole30 or Paleo and tired of eggs at breakfast? This vegetable-rich hash was deemed by the KIDS as tastes like pizza! You won't be hungry after this unique hash (no white potatoes).I know parents aren’t supposed to serve a food and expect the children won’t like it, but I totally had this one pegged as an “adult only” meal and had a backup plan for breakfast for the kids. 

We’re eating grain-free right now for a Whole30 and cavity-healing diet, which can mean having a LOT of eggs, especially for breakfast. The idea of a breakfast hash with tons of vegetables and no eggs, especially if it didn’t include the starchy white potatoes that show up in a lot of our meals, was really agreeable to me.Doing a Whole30 or Paleo and tired of eggs at breakfast? This vegetable-rich hash was deemed by the KIDS as tastes like pizza! You won't be hungry after this unique hash (no white potatoes). 


Many options online included sweet potatoes, which my husband won’t touch, and I didn’t want to make a meal that only I would eat. 

But then I got a big surprise – I was actually having some early morning work time once I got the hash started and my husband was serving breakfast, but the news was delivered to the office: The kids didn’t end up needing the backup plan because they were eating all the hash and proclaiming joyfully that it “tasted like pizza!” 

Huh? 

Whole30 Tastes Like Pizza Breakfast Hash - no white potatoes, no eggs necessary, so yummy! 

Whole30 and Kid-Friendly Breakfast That Tastes Like Pizza? 

There’s no oregano in the dish, which would potentially make it taste like pizza. No cheese. No tomatoes or tomato sauce. 

But who am I to argue with kids who are happily eating their parents’ potions of vegetables at breakfast!!! 

So “tastes like pizza” breakfast hash it is. 

I have a hunch that the smoked paprika might be the magic sauce, or it’s possible that the paltry amount of homemade sausage I added could have made them think about pizza, but if you don’t have either, I know it would still be yummy! (Perhaps add some oregano.) 

This recipe is one reason I started using Plan to Eat again just so that I could get all these veggies on my shopping list properly and not forget any. I also ed the hash in there for you to use – you can see it right HERE, and if you don’t have a PTE membership, sign up for their 30-day free trial and be sure to add this one to your recipe box right away! (You can import recipes using the URL and it only takes about 10 seconds to do each one, so really, truly, there’s not much startup time for the system.)Doing a Whole30 or Paleo and tired of eggs at breakfast? This vegetable-rich hash was deemed by the KIDS as tastes like pizza! You won't be hungry after this unique hash (no white potatoes). 

Tastes Like Pizza Breakfast Hash Recipe 
 

Print 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
40 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: breakfast 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
2 Tbs. fat of choice (bacon grease is excellent of course) 
1 medium leek, sliced 
½-1 turnip, peeled and diced 
½-1 celeriac, diced (celery root...or just use some celery to keep it simple) 
½ fennel bulb, sliced 
about a cup of bok choy, white and green parts, roughly chopped (or any leafy green you have around) 
1-2 cloves garlic, minced 
salt and pepper to taste 
½-1 tsp. smoked paprika 
¼-1/2 c. cooked sausage crumbles 
Instructions 
In a hot skillet, saute the turnip, leek, celeriac, fennel, and white part of the bok choy in the fat. 
Stir around for a few minutes, then allow to cook on medium-low, covered, for about 15 minutes or until the diced vegetables are soft. 
Stir occasionally to prevent sticking to the pan.
Add the sausage, leafy greens, garlic, salt, pepper, and paprika and stir until garlic is fragrant and greens are wilted, about 2 minutes more. 
Serve hot with optional diced tomatoes, chopped parsley, or sliced green onion on top. (I added feta, but that's not Whole30.) 
Add an egg if you like. 
Notes 
* I highly recommend cutting up all the veggies the day before - it really speeds up breakfast prep! Just don't forget that you'll still need to allow for at least 20-30 minutes of cook time. 

* If you don't have cooked ground sausage in your freezer (What? You should!) just add raw ground sausage at the beginning of the recipe. Here's how to make homemade sausage out of any ground meat. I tagged this recipe vegetarian too because you could leave out the sausage, no problem.  

* Oregano would be great if you don't have smoked paprika. 

* Use the green and white parts of the leek. Lots of chefs only use the white, but I don't mind the green one bit.  

* How do you cut a celery root? They're ugly things, aren't they? Cut off the leaves and stem if it's attached, trim the outer peel off with a sharp knife, and dice the dense white part for this recipe. You can eat the steams and leaves, too. I just added them to my veggie ends bag in the freezer for homemade stock. 

* Don't be afraid of veggies you don't know. Turnips are very easy to source, cut, and use, and if you don't want to buy something pricey like celeriac, just use celery. I've made this hash with kale instead of bok choy, rutabaga instead of turnips, and all sorts of other substitutions. Use whatever veggies you have on hand! 


Eggs or No Eggs? 
You can add eggs to the hash, either scrambling them in, frying on the side (runny yolks are amazing dripping all over a hash like this!), or dropping them on top like this: 

Breakfast Pizza hash recipe with Eggs - delicious without them too - Paleo and Whole30 approved! 

I recommend adding a little water to create steam and covering the pan, especially if you do like runny yolks. Without the water, the eggs will cook from the bottom up, take a long time (10 minutes for these babies) and have a solid yolk. Keeping a runny yolks will also preserve some of the health properties and enzymes in the eggs, so I always prefer that method when I can. 

I’m so pumped about all these veggies getting into my family at breakfast, and I admit I’m a little shocked it went over as well as it did. I mean, celeriac? Fennel? Really??!! 

I’m used to adding veggies with these amazing low-carb “pumpkin” pancakes, wrote a whole book about healthy breakfasts, and Debra shared more ways to get vegetables in at breakfast last summer, but this one is a keeper…as long as I remember to buy the veggies needed! (Also  for another kind of breakfast-veggie boost from Haley later this month!) 


START RECIPE

Pumpkin Oatmeal Breakfast Bars Recipe 
Jamie Larrison (Contributing Writer) 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

31 
Pumpkin Oatmeal Breakfast Bar Recipe (Whole Grain, Low Sugar) - this delicious breakfast bar is a great grab and go breakfast option for busy weeks!This post is from KS contributor Jamie Larrison of How To Just About Anything. 

Let me describe your typical morning… 
You wake up all on your own, completely refreshed and have ample time to shower, get dressed and do your hair. You’re greeted at the breakfast table by a row of smiling, patient faces. You fry some eggs and bacon as you dexterously dip and cook the French toast, all while the coffee steams in the background. Your toddler of course doesn’t bother this process at all, and most certainly doesn’t grab the egg carton off the counter and smash it onto the floor. 

Kudos to you if your morning actually looks like this! But more often that not mornings can be a rushed, chaotic mess. And trying to fit a nutritious breakfast, that even your pickiest child will love, in the mix can seem impossible. 

Hurried Mornings 
Mornings can be rushed for a variety of reasons. Maybe everyone was up too late the night before and caught some extra zzz’s. Or maybe the dog decided to use your clean, but not folded yet, laundry pile instead of the outdoors to do his business. And just maybe that laundry pile had all the school uniforms in it. 

Even if you homeschool, you don’t want to spend all day on your morning routine. Even if your kids aren’t in school yet, or you don’t have kids, you still don’t want to waste tons of time in the mornings. 


I remember certain college mornings where I would literally roll out of bed, put on my shoes, grab a Slim Fast and head to class. I think it can safely be said that we all want to streamline things. And hopefully no one reading this resorts to Slim Fast for breakfast! Please don’t drink Slim Fast. 

I Need More Options! 
Does this mean that it’s cold cereal for breakfast every morning? This breakfast solution can get old quickly . Especially if you’re trying to go gluten free. A person can only eat so many bowls of rice chex. Or maybe you’ve opted for the healthier route and get the organic box that was ONLY $4.95 on sale. Those add up fast! 

I usually have time to make a simple, yet nutritious, breakfast. Like a quick batch of gluten free pumpkin pancakes. Or some green eggs and ham that have a secret nutritious ingredient my toddler loves. 

But other mornings I just don’t have the time! Sometimes I’m just worn out from making breakfast and need a break. These pumpkin oatmeal breakfast bars are the solution to multiple breakfast issues. 

What’s so Great About These Oatmeal Breakfast Bars? 
They’re soft and chewy so they’re suitable for an older baby. They’re slightly sweet and packed with a pumpkin flavor that will appeal to picky eaters. You can also make these the night before and literally just grab one as you head out the door. I’ve even stowed one of these away in a reusable container for an easy way to nourish a hungry little one. Perfect for when the trip to the grocery store is taking longer than expected. 

Pumpkin Oatmeal Breakfast Bar Recipe (Whole Grain, Low Sugar) - this delicious breakfast bar is a great grab and go breakfast option for busy weeks!These are naturally gluten and dairy free, so they’re safe for those with these allergies. Even if you don’t make it a point to avoid those foods, these bars are delicious to have on hand. They have a soft, cakelike texture to them. 

I also love the autumn flavor to this. To me, a good pumpkin baked good full of cinnamon and ginger is the perfect breakfast (or snack) to munch on. Especially when it’s paired with a foamy homemade vanilla latte or a diy creamy pumpkin frappe. 

Breakfast Book 200Looking for more quick, easy, gluten-free options? 
Need ideas to stay away from the cold cereal aisle at the store? 

Find many more recipes (including an allergen-free index!) in Katie’s eBook The Healthy Breakfast Book. 



Not only is pumpkin a popular seasonal favorite, but it’s super good for you too! One serving of these oatmeal bars will give you 40% of the vitamin A needed for the day. It has 94 mg of potassium and is high in several other key nutrients, like vitamin C. 
So enough about how awesome these are. Go make some! 

3.5 from 2 reviews 
Pumpkin Oatmeal Breakfast Bars 
 

Print 
Make the night before for a fast breakfast! 

Note: Ingredients often use affiliate links to Amazon and Tropical Traditions, but obviously you should shop for the best price and try to keep your dollars local when you can. 
Author: Jamie Larrison 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 6 servings 
Ingredients 
1½ c. whole rolled oats (certified gluten free if needed for an allergy) 
½ c. nuts (pecan and walnuts are both excellent!) 
1 tsp. vanilla 
¾ c. pumpkin puree 
1 egg 
1 very ripe (small) banana 
2 Tbs. maple syrup or honey 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
½ tsp. ginger 
¼ tsp. cardamom (optional) 
Instructions 
Use a fork to mash the banana into a smooth paste in a medium size mixing bowl. 
Add the vanilla, pumpkin, egg and maple syrup or honey and stir until smooth. 
Add the oats, nuts, and spices and stir just until combined. 
Pour into a well greased 8x8 baking dish or pie plate. Use a rubber spatula to smooth the batter out to the edges of the pan. 
Bake at 350 degrees for about 20-25 min. 
Note: If the mixture seems very runny, feel free to add more oats to thicken up before baking. The moisture content of your pumpkin and size of banana have a big impact here. 

What’s your favorite busy morning breakfast? 

jamie 150Jamie is the wife of Devon and mommy to Liam. She studied Journalism at Grace College and is currently working on a Master Herbalist certificate. She started an all-natural body care business, This & That Herbal, and is the development director for A’amarna Toothpaste. Follow her as she explores how to be a good steward of her God given resources and shares it at How To Just About Anything. 

Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Amazon and Tropical Traditions from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. See my full disclosure statement here. 


START RECIPE


Cardamom Ginger Peach Crumble Recipe (Gluten-Free) 
Jamie Larrison (Contributing Writer) 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Gluten-Free Peach Crumble with Cardamom and Ginger Recipe. Gluten free, whole grain, affordable and deliciously easy peach crumble recipe with exotic cardamom and ginger to spice it up. 
This post is from KS contributing writer Jamie Larrison of How To Just About Anything. 

Call me un-American, but I’m not a pie person. Especially apple pie. There’s just something about the crust that lacks substance to me. Even the flakiest pie crust just doesn’t have the flavor and depth I crave in a dessert. 

For the Love of Cake and Crumble 
Cake is my thing. Especially a dense chocolate cake with homemade buttercream icing! And even though I love cake, it doesn’t really love me back. All that wheat makes my digestive system cross. 

And while a coconut flour (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) cake can be quite delicious, it’s just not the same as a regular wheat one. Plus, if I make cake, then I want to eat it for breakfast. Or hide in the corner with a glass of milk as I shovel it in before anyone notices and I have to share. I have a love/hate relationship with my cake. 

Fruit crumble is my compromise dessert. The thick, buttery, oaty top melds perfectly with the juicy fruit. It’s slightly sweet so it’s perfect for dessert. Make a huge batch if you have a large family. Add a scoop of vanilla ice cream for company. It’s really delicious with butter pecan or peach ice cream. 

Gluten-Free Peach Crumble with Cardamom and Ginger Recipe. Gluten free, whole grain, affordable and deliciously easy peach crumble recipe with exotic cardamom and ginger to spice it up. 
Crumbles are also the perfect answer to that discounted bag of fruit at the farmer’s market. We all know that fruit tastes best when it’s in season, but often it will go on sale when it’s nearing the end of it’s peak. Buying in bulk at the farmer’s market will usually get you a discount as well. Even if there are soft spots or slightly rotten pieces on the fruit, these can easily be cut off and covered in a delicious crumble topping. 

But what about cobbler or crisp you ? While my palate appreciates both there’s just something about a crumble that falls right in the middle, making it perfect. It’s not as cakelike as cobbler, but it’s moister and softer than a crisp. A quick google search for “peach crumble” will yield literally tons of recipes for you to choose from, so why this one? 

Affordable Gluten Free 
I wanted to make a gluten free recipe that didn’t cost an arm and a leg like the ones with specialty flours. Don’t get me wrong, I love almond flour, but it doesn’t fit into my budget as an everyday (or everyweek) food. I also wanted something with a little more depth of flavor than the traditional cinnamon and peach crumble. While these are delicious in their simplicity, just a few additional touches turn this classic into something unique. 

The beauty of it though is even without the special ingredients, this still tastes divine with a sprinkle of ginger and cinnamon. 

Katie here – gluten-free can be confusing but it doesn’t have to be hard! I’m thrilled to share a FREE gluten-free cheat sheet mini eBook to help get you started!
This is perfect if you’ve just been told you need a GF diet, if you have a friend or family member eating GF and you’d like to cook for them, or if you’re just curious what it’s all about! 
Free gluten-free guide for rookies 
YES! I WANT THE FREE GF CHEAT SHEET! 
The Beauty of Carbs 
Even better, this dessert has 21 grams of whole grain carbs per serving. When combined with the fat from the butter, this combo helps the body better digest the sugar from the fruit and topping. 

Not so sure if carbs are a good choice though? This one study found that a low carb diet negatively effected the memory and brain function of those studied. They were smarter on carbs! So when all is said and done, I enjoy a warm bowl of this peach crumble for breakfast AND dessert! 

Gluten-Free Peach Crumble with Cardamom and Ginger Recipe. Gluten free, whole grain, affordable and deliciously easy peach crumble recipe with exotic cardamom and ginger to spice it up. 
Cardamom Ginger Peach Crumble (Gluten-Free) 
 

Print 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
25 mins 
Total time 
35 mins 
 
The cardamom and ginger will really elevate your opinion of this simple dessert. 

Note: Ingredients often use affiliate links to Amazon, Vitacost and Tropical Traditions, but obviously you should shop for the best price and try to keep your dollars local when you can. 
Author: Jamie Larrison 
Recipe type: Dessert 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
Filling: 
8 peaches, sliced and peeled 
¼ tsp. ginger 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
¾ tsp. cardamom 
2-3 Tbs. flour (oat or whole wheat) 
1-2 Tbs. cane sugar, rapadura, or sucanat 
2 Tbs. crystallized ginger 
½ c. chopped pecans (optional) 
Topping: 
1 cup rolled oats 
½ cup flour (oat of whole wheat) 
¾ c. butter 
¼ c. cane sugar, rapadura, or sucanat 
2 tsp. vanilla 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
Instructions 
Preheat the oven to 350. 
Combine all of the filling ingredients and gently stir to combine. If the peaches are very ripe and juicy use 3 Tbs. flour and only 1 Tbsp. sugar. If the peaches are firm then only use 2 Tbs. flour and increase the sugar to 2 Tbs. 
In another bowl combine the oats, flour and cinnamon. 
Cut the butter into chunks and sprinkle on top of the topping mixture. 
Sprinkle the vanilla on top of the butter and mash everything together with a fork. 
Spread the fruit mixture into an 8x8 pan, a deep pie plate or individual ramekins. 
Sprinkle the topping over the fruit, gently pressing down as you go. 
Bake for 20-25 minutes or until the fruit is bubbly and the topping is golden brown. 
Serve warm or cold. 
Notes 
* Feel free to eliminate the crystallized ginger and cardamom if you're trying to cut costs. 

* Easily make your own oat flour by grinding some rolled oats in a coffee grinder until powdery. 
Yum 
What’s your favorite fruit dessert? 

jamie 150Jamie is the wife of Devon and mommy to Liam. She studied Journalism at Grace College and is currently working on a Master Herbalist certificate. She started an all-natural body care business, This & That Herbal, and is the development director for A’amarna Toothpaste. Follow her as she explores how to be a good steward of her God given resources and shares it at How To Just About Anything. 
Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Vitacost, Amazon and Tropical Traditions from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. See my full disclosure statement here. 


START RECIPE

Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert Topping Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert Topping 

I’ve been told, in spite of the fact that I see pumpkin recipes all over right now, that September is for apple recipes and October is for pumpkin recipes. 

In that case, this grain-free apple dessert topping recipe (or maybe breakfast treat) that I’ve been saving for this fall needs to be shared immediately! 

It includes zero sweetener unless you want to add it, because the caramelizing of the fruits makes it deliciously sweet enough for any after-meal treat (but clean enough for any breakfast as well). 

Clean, delicious and sweet treat for dessert.... or breakfast! 

The recipe is designed for a single dessert serving if served on its own or to serve 2-4 as a topping. I recommend doubling it for a family to avoid fights over the serving dish. Winking smile 

I mentioned the recipe on Facebook last week and one reader wondered if apples and bananas actually taste good together. Our family’s standard “fruit salad” is a winter dish with apples, oranges, grapes and bananas, so for me, the two together is pretty normal. If you have just ten minutes, you can decide for yourself! This one is that easy. 

Recipe: Caramelized Banana Apple Dessert Topping
Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert Topping 

1.0 from 1 reviews 
Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert Topping 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
5 mins 
Total time 
10 mins 
 
This simple topping could as easily go on top of ice cream as oatmeal, and it takes just minutes to toss together. 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: dessert, breakfast 
Serves: 1-2 
Ingredients 
1 Tbs. butter 
1 banana 
1 small or ½ large apple 
½ tsp. cinnamon 
(optional) ¼-1/2 tsp. dried ground ginger (or grated fresh) 
1 Tbs. pecans or walnuts, coarsely chopped or whole (make them crispy nuts first) 
(optional) shredded coconut 
Instructions 
Melt the butter in a small skillet over medium heat. 
Slice the banana into thirds and then each piece lengthwise (6 pieces total). 
Place the banana slices in the melted butter, flat side down. 
Cook for 3 minutes on medium (or medium-low if you're on a big burner), uncovered. 
Meanwhile, wash and finely dice or slice the apple (about ½ centimeter pieces). Choose a nice cooking apple like a Gala, Fuji, Golden Delicious, Cortland, or really just about anything that's not overly tart. 
Flip each banana slice individually. They should be nicely browned and a bit crispy on the bottom (cook 1-2 more minutes if not yet browned, see picture below). 
Add the apple to the skillet, trying to fill the spaces between the bananas in the melted butter, and sprinkle everything with cinnamon, nuts and optional ginger. 
Cover and cook 3 minutes on low heat, checking once or twice to make sure nothing is getting too brown. 
Take the cover off and turn the heat back up to medium to caramelize the fruit a bit more.  closely and stir gently so as to not overbrown anything. 
Remove from heat and serve warm. 
Serves 1 for a dessert dish or 2-4 as a topping. 
Notes 
If you really want a sweeter treat, add a bit of real maple syrup or a dusting of sucanat when you add the apples. 

 

Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert ToppingThe banana slices, flipped and nicely browned on the bottom… 

Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert ToppingAdding all the remaining ingredients… 

How to Serve 
Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert Topping 

* Over oatmeal or other hot cereals 

* As a pancake topping 

* On top of homemade applesauce 

* On homemade yogurt 

* In mini pre-baked pie crusts (try this gluten-free walnut-oat pie crust for a delicious change) 

* With cinnamon-spiced yogurt cheese, either blended as an apple or graham cracker dip or in crepes like the ones in this cherry almond coconut crepes recipe 

* Over banana “ice cream,” frozen bananas blended until smooth (below). I’ve only been able to achieve this in a high-powered blender such as a Blendtec. Add 1-2 Tbs. cocoa powder per 2 bananas for chocolate banana ice cream – that you could serve for breakfast! 

Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert Topping 

* Over homemade vanilla ice cream (maybe with the healthy-ish chocolate sauce from Smart Sweets) 

* On top of a homemade pudding or rice pudding (both recipes in my eBook, Healthy Snacks To Go) 

* On homemade sourdough toast or English muffins 

* Or just by itself, with a spoon 

So what do you think? Do apples and bananas taste okay together? 

Caramelized Banana-Apple Dessert Topping 

Other Apple Recipes 
Apple Squares 
5 Ways to Preserve Apples 
Grain-free Apple Flax Muffins 
Healthy Apple Crisp (slow cooker, grain-free versions included) 
Apple Cinnamon Baked Oatmeal 
Grain-free Almond Apple Pancakes 
Asparagus Apple Salad 
Crispy Baked Apple Chips 
Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Amazon and Tropical Traditions from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. See my full disclosure statement here. 

FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Pumpkin Pie Baked Oatmeal Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Healthy soaked baked oatmeal recipe infused with the spices of autumn and a harvest of nutritious orange vegetables. This is how to serve veggies for breakfast!It’s time for everything pumpkin! 
Thanks to a reader who reminded me that I promised this recipe in the fall after I posted the soaked baked oatmeal (apple cinnamon and cherry almond versions) in the spring. 

You can use any orange vegetable (squash, sweet potato) for this delicious, nourishing breakfast, but of of course getting a real pie pumpkin is so much fun. Buttercup squash are very sweet and perfect for baking, too. 


Update from a reader: Apparently pie pumpkins aren’t even the best for pies! Go figure. Check out this review of various options. I found it kind of fascinating… 

If you’ve never used a real pie pumpkin, don’t be afraid. 

How to Bake a Pie Pumpkin 
1. Wash the outside of the pumpkin. 

2. Set the oven to 400F and put the whole pumpkin inside while it preheats (and maybe 5-10 minutes longer). This is necessary to soften the outside. If you don’t do it, you may end up doing something like this, swearing up and down that you’ll never bother with real pumpkins again: 

Pumpkin Pie Baked Oatmeal. Healthy soaked baked oatmeal recipe infused with the spices of autumn and a harvest of nutritious orange vegetables. Want your kids to eat veggies for breakfast? This is the recipe! 

Did I mention pie pumpkins are really, really hard on the outside? 

3. Once you are able to cut through it, cut the pumpkin in half. 

4. Scoop out the pulp and seeds from the center. 

5. Save the seeds for snacking, following directions on how to make pumpkin seeds – you can even hold them in the fridge for a few days until you’re ready to deal with them. 

6. Place the two halves facedown on a cookie sheet or baking dish with a little water in the bottom. 

7. Bake at 400F (or even 350F if you’ve got dinner in the oven too) for 45-60 minutes, or until a fork easily pierces the outside and the flesh inside is very soft. 

8. Allow to cool a bit for handling. 

9. Scoop out all the orange flesh and puree, either in a blender or food processor (you may need to add a bit of water, but try not to add much) or with an immersion blender (my favorite method). 

The Healthy Breakfast BookIs breakfast monotonous at your house? Uninspiring? Or worse…processed? Get a little inspiration from The Healthy Breakfast Book, over 60 recipes plus efficiency tips and sample meal plans to make every breakfast nourishing. This recipe is just one of the great ideas to serve at a company brunch to help others fall in love with real food, too!Get the whole premium package with bonus mini eBooks and Kindle/Nook files right HERE. 



That’s it! Now you have homemade pumpkin puree to use in any recipe. Baking squash follows the same strategy. 
You can freeze the pumpkin (or squash) puree pre-measured in 1-cup or 2-cup portions in a zippered bag for ease of use later.Healthy soaked baked oatmeal recipe infused with the spices of autumn and a harvest of nutritious orange vegetables. This is how to serve veggies for breakfast! 

 

Pumpkin Pie Baked Oatmeal Recipe 
 

Print 
Prep time 
24 hours 
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
24 hours 30 mins 
 
Soaking oatmeal is a simple procedure, and when it’s incorporated right into the recipe like this, folks won’t even wonder why they’re doing it – they’ll just get more minerals without even knowing why. The oatmeal dish makes a great make-ahead breakfast.  

Note: Ingredients often use affiliate links to Amazon and Tropical Traditions, but obviously you should shop for the best price and try to keep your dollars local when you can.
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 8 adults 
Ingredients 
2 ½ c. whole rolled oats (not quick or instant) 
¼ c. whole wheat or buckwheat (GF) flour, freshly ground 
1 ¾ c. liquid* 
½ c. (or cut to ¼ c.) coconut oil (or butter, softened or melted) 
1-2 c. pumpkin (1/2-1 16 oz. can) 
4 eggs 
¼-1/2 c. maple syrup 
1 tsp. baking powder 
½ tsp. salt 
3 tsp. cinnamon 
1 tsp. ginger 
1 tsp. nutmeg 
1 tsp. cloves 
1 c. raisins (or serve on the side) 

Instructions 
Two nights before you want to eat baked oatmeal at breakfast: Mix the oats, flour, and liquid together. If you have a 9×13 glass pan with a lid, I recommend mixing the oats right in there to save a dish. Allow to rest at room temperature, covered, for 24 hours. 
The night before you need the quick breakfast: Beat oil, maple syrup and eggs until glossy (I use my KitchenAid mixer). The cold eggs generally made the coconut oil solidify a bit, but don’t worry about it. Just beat. Incorporate the pumpkin. 
Add the baking powder, salt, and all spices. Beat in the oats mixture, then add raisins (nuts are a nice addition, too), stirring to combine. 
Pour back into that 9×13 glass dish, put a lid on it, and refrigerate overnight. If you don’t have a lid, try one of these methods to avoid using plastic wrap. 
In the morning, put the pan (uncovered) right from the fridge into a cold oven and turn on to 350F. Bake for 30-40 minutes until a knife inserted in the center comes out clean and the oatmeal is not mushy to the touch. 
Serve warm with milk and extra syrup if you prefer. Store covered, either at room temperature or in the refrigerator. It’s pretty doggone good cold, too…I might be the type of person to buzz by a dish and snitch a bite here and there throughout the day! 
*For the liquid, choose from buttermilk, plain homemade yogurt (or store bought), raw milk, half milk/half yogurt, half water/yogurt, half whey/yogurt – good if you have whey to use up. If you don’t have raw milk, as long you mix it with half yogurt or cultured dairy, it should be fine for the soak overnight, but don’t use 100% pasteurized milk as the only liquid. 
A reader reports that forgetting the baking powder is no problem, and cardamom instead of cloves is wonderful. 


Healthy soaked baked oatmeal recipe infused with the spices of autumn and a harvest of nutritious orange vegetables. This is how to serve veggies for breakfast!Cook’s Notes: 
Why add flour? Freshly ground whole wheat, spelt, and buckwheat are added to oats for soaking purposes and phytase only. If you’re not soaking, skip the flour. 
Go bold: If you love pumpkin pie spice, add more cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger and cloves. I’m doubling the ginger next time I make it! 😉 
How to make it faster: Just soak the oats overnight or for 24 hours (breakfast to breakfast) and mix up all the other ingredients in the morning when you’re going to serve it. The overnight refrigeration is not necessary: it’s only for the morning convenience of having everything done. 
How to make it with fewer dishes: Honestly, I’ve taken to mixing everything up in the 9×13 dish. How lazy is that? But no one has noticed any difference in the end result, so I highly recommend it. Just mix up the oats and liquid, then the next day, push that to one side and whisk the eggs, oil and sweetener on the other half of the pan. Start mixing everything up well at this point (a potato masher or super strong whisk may come in handy to incorporate everything well. Make sure you sprinkle things like salt and baking powder evenly over the whole mixture. 
Healthy soaked baked oatmeal recipe infused with the spices of autumn and a harvest of nutritious orange vegetables. This is how to serve veggies for breakfast!If you’ve used a can of pumpkin for the baked oatmeal, you’ll have about a cup leftover. That can be frozen too, or used in other pumpkin recipes: 
Healthy Pumpkin Muffins (and soaked pumpkin muffins) 
Healthy Pumpkin Cookies 
Grain-free Pumpkin Pancakes (or any orange vegetable) 
Cabbage Pumpkin Soup 
Other tips for using little bits of leftover pumpkin 
I’ve even tossed a bit of pumpkin into these paleo pancakes 

Healthy soaked baked oatmeal recipe infused with the spices of autumn and a harvest of nutritious orange vegetables. This is how to serve veggies for breakfast!Disclosure: I am an Amazon affiliate and will earn a small commission if you buy anything there starting here. See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Which Olive Oil to Buy? The Olive Oil Fraud! 
Real Food for Life 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Event We Love: The Indie Beauty Expo 
Garden Collage 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE

Easy Potato Vegetable Pancakes Recipe (Latkes) 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Go green with these super easy potato vegetable pancakes [Latkes}! Your kids will love this fun breakfast option.This Latke recipe (also called potato pancakes) is written in my own hand from 1988, when I would have been in third grade. Food has always been a part of my history, and this traditional dish from my Polish heritage is a perennial favorite. 

When I first served them to my husband, he was incredibly skeptical and didn’t think he’d like them, but now they’re a great go-to “breakfast for dinner” meal for the whole family. 



The Healthy Breakfast BookIs breakfast monotonous at your house? Uninspiring? Or worse…processed? Get a little inspiration from The Healthy Breakfast Book, over 60 recipes plus efficiency tips and sample meal plans to make every breakfast nourishing. This recipe is just one of the great ideas in the book!
Get the whole premium package with bonus mini eBooks and Kindle/Nook files right HERE. 

Better yet, they’re an awesome way to have vegetables for breakfast! We all know we should be having veggies in larger quantities than most other foods, but sometimes they’re tough to get into the meal plan except at dinnertime. 

Why not start the day off strong with one or two of your 5-a-day taken care of (and then shoot for 7-10)? 

Latke (Potato Pancakes)…with Vegetables! 
5.0 from 1 reviews 
Potato Pancakes (Latkes) 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 4 (18-25 pancakes) 
Ingredients 
3 large potatoes (about 4 cups worth, grated) 
about 2-3 cups other vegetables, grated (see Q&A notes) 
3 eggs 
2 Tbs. flour (see Q&A notes) 
1 medium onion 
1 tsp. salt 
oil for frying (refined coconut oil is excellent) 

Instructions 
Wash, peel (optional) and grate the raw potatoes. Salt the gratings and allow to sit for 10-60 minutes (depending on how long you have before the meal), then drain the excess water that accumulates at the bottom of the bowl. If you're hurrying and must skip this step entirely, the pancakes will survive. 
Grate or finely chop onion and add to potatoes, along with any other veggies you're using. (Grate = lots of crying: finely chop = only a few tears. Another reason I like the food processor to do the job for me. Use the regular blade to chop onions.) 
Beat eggs well and add to the bowl (or just beat on top and then mix in). 
Add salt and flour. Mix well. 
Heat oil in frying pan or electric griddle at about 350F. 
Spoon potato mixture into hot oil and flatten with spoon or spatula to create 3-4” circles: 
Add a spoonful of the liquid that collects at the bottom of the mixing bowl right in the center. It's mostly egg and will remind you of a fried egg around the edges of the pancake:
This helps to hold everything together nicely so you don't end up just making veggie hashbrowns. Flip when the underside is golden brown, about 2 minutes. The second side won't cook quite as evenly brown, but when it starts looking like toasty hashbrowns, they're done (about 3-5 minutes). 
Remove to a plate: drain with paper towel if necessary: 
Traditional toppings include sour cream or applesauce, but they're also good with real maple syrup, homemade yogurt in place of the sour cream, or even ketchup. My son uses 3 of the 4, which makes my husband cringe, but hey – to each his own toppings as long as they're eating their vegetables! 
Notes 
I highly recommend using a food processor with a grater attachment to make this a 30-minute meal. It's possible to use a hand grater, but you'll get tired of it quickly, especially if you have a large enough family for a double batch. 

Recipe Q&A: Getting more Out of the Latkes 
Q: How do I make this dish even healthier? 
A: Add vegetables! 


Once your family is convinced that potato pancakes are wonderful (you might skip anything green on the first attempt if you have veggie-phobic children), slowly adjust the 6-7 cups of shredded stuff so that the ratio of potatoes to vegetables gets lower and lower. Eventually, you should be able to have just 2 cups of shredded potatoes and 4 cups of shredded vegetables. 

Go green with these super easy potato vegetable pancakes [Latkes}! Your kids will love this fun breakfast option.But if you want something fun for St. Patty’s Day, put a few BIG handfuls of washed baby spinach in! You really can’t taste it, and eating green food without nasty food coloring is a fun real food trick. 🙂 

Q: What vegetables should I use? 
A: Anything you have on hand: 

spinach or other leafy greens 
sweet potato 
carrots 
zucchini or summer squash 
fall squash, raw 
broccoli, stems included 
cauliflower 
Spinach will make the whole batch a shocking green, but I promise, you can’t taste it. Zucchini, especially peeled, totally blends in. Broccoli and cauliflower will impart some flavor, so use in smaller amounts until you know how they come through. 

Sweet potato will naturally add a bit of sweetness, which some will love and some will hate. If your family likes these with maple syrup, you can use less sweetener if you include a few sweet potatoes. 

Feel free to add green or colored peppers, but they will really change the flavor of the dish. You can always chop peppers finely and add to individual pancakes just for those who would appreciate the Mexi-flavor, and perhaps include salsa with the sour cream on the table. 

Q: What kind of flour should I use? 
A: Any flour from white to whole wheat will work just fine. 

Q: What’s the gluten-free option? 
A: This recipe will work with brown rice flour or even arrowroot starch in place of the 2 Tbs. of flour. You just need a bit to get everything to stick together. 

Q: Is this breakfast or dinner? 
A: Both. 

I highly recommend making this a “breakfast for dinner” meal with your favorite meat on the side and planning leftovers for breakfast. You could certainly make them just for breakfast as well, but you’d have to get up quite a bit earlier than the rest of your hungry family. 


It’s also possible to grate the veggies in advance and keep covered in the refrigerator for the morning, as long as you have time to fry them up while you’re getting ready for your day. 

Q: How do I reheat leftovers? 
A: Leftovers are awesome to have with this recipe. I often make a double batch just so I have leftovers for quick breakfasts. They are best reheated in a frying pan or griddle to retain the crispy outside, but a toaster oven does a good job, too. 

Go green with these super easy potato vegetable pancakes [Latkes}! Your kids will love this fun breakfast option. 

OTHER HEALTHY BREAKFAST IDEAS: 
Soaked Whole Grain Pancakes 
Healthy Pumpkin Muffins 
Best Scrambled Eggs Ever 
Banana Flax Muffins 
Homemade Granola and Granola bars 
Sourdough Pancakes (3 options) 
Cherry Almond Coconut Crepes 
Paleo Pancakes (Banana) 
Soaked Oatmeal 
Pumpkin Pie Baked Oatmeal 
See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Which Olive Oil to Buy? The Olive Oil Fraud! 
Real Food for Life 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Event We Love: The Indie Beauty Expo 
Garden Collage 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE

Grain-Free Apple Flax Muffins Recipes 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

A grain free muffin recipe that you won't need fancy ingredients to make. Flax is the start player in this gluten free and delicious treat.We threw my sister-in-law a real curveball, coming to visit during Lent when our entire family was grain-free. I’m pretty sure she had a spectacular menu all planned out when I dropped the email bomb about, “By the way, we gave up grains for Lent, and it’s not just a sacrifice thing, but we have to stick to it to see if anyone actually has a health issue with gluten. Hope you weren’t planning veggie lasagna for a meatless Friday dinner…” 

She was, of course. Then she was going to use eggplant in one dish instead of noodles, until I told her nobody around here likes eggplant, either. 

The poor girl. I don’t blame her for being frustrated at first, and I felt horribly after speaking to her on the phone. 

She never ceases to impress and amaze me, though, so I wasn’t completely surprised (although honored and touched) that she tossed her original plans and rose to the challenge with new recipes the whole weekend. 

She learned to read labels, found some fun gluten-free crackers, served an amazing meat- AND grain-free supper on Friday (pasta-less minestrone, salad, and zucchini-based cheesy lasagna), and got creative with quinoa crepes for breakfast. (The only time my husband has ever eaten quinoa and enjoyed it! Woo hoo!) She found a little restaurant in Cincinnati for Saturday’s lunch that serves local, pastured meats and eggs which I raved about on Facebook as soon as I could, and she had bunless and delicious homemade turkey burgers with tons of side dishes for dinner. 

I am so truly blessed to have a sister-in-law who cares about us so much. *sniff* 

She even knocked out the ever-difficult “snacks” category with these apple flax muffins, a recipe she realized she had bookmarked long ago before she had ever heard of anyone going grain-free. 

They were the absolutely perfect to-go treat for the 5K run/walk that we all participated in. 

And now, for the recipe. You won’t trick anyone into thinking they’re not health food, but if you like a hearty muffin, you’ll never miss the flour in this recipe. I just love the chunkiness of the nuts and apples, and I remain amazed that flax can take the place of all grains like this. 

If taking real food on the go is a challenge for you, you’re not alone. Join thousands of other happy owners of Healthy Snacks to Go, an eBook that is helping real foodies everywhere keep their families nourished (and kids happy) even when they need to pack a snack — without resorting to processed junk food or expensive health food store treats. With over a dozen different “bar” recipes alone, including many that are grain-free and contain zero refined sugar, I guarantee you’ll find a new family favorite in Healthy Snacks to Go. 
A grain free muffin recipe that you won't need fancy ingredients to make. Flax is the start player in this gluten free and delicious treat. 

 


4.0 from 3 reviews 
Grain-Free Apple Flax Muffins 
 

Print 
Prep time 
20 mins 
Cook time 
18 mins 
Total time 
38 mins 
 
Note: Ingredients often use affiliate links to Amazon and Tropical Traditions, but obviously you should shop for the best price and try to keep your dollars local when you can. 
Author: Katie Kimball  
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 18-24 
Ingredients 
1¼ c. flax seed meal OR whole flax seeds 
2 tsp. baking powder 
1 Tbs. cinnamon 
1 tsp. nutmeg (optional) 
½ tsp. salt 
⅓ c. sugar or sucanat 
4 eggs 
¼ c. melted unrefined coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) (or butter) 
½ c. applesauce (yogurt works as a substitute) 
1 tsp. vanilla 
1 large apple, chopped 
½ c. walnuts, chopped 

Instructions 
If using ground flax (meal): 
Mix dry ingredients. Beat the eggs and add to dry mixture along with oil, applesauce, and vanilla. Mix thoroughly. Add apple and nuts and stir to combine. 
If using whole flax seeds: you'll need a decent blender for this one: 
Blend eggs, oil, flax seeds, applesauce and vanilla about a minute, or as long as it takes to grind up the seeds completely. (This just about killed my blender, so I decided good enough when my blender just didn't want to move anymore.) The mixture will get very gummy and thick quite quickly. 
Combine dry ingredients separately. 
If you have a high-powered blender, add dry ingredients to the mixture in the blender and blend to combine, then stir in apples and walnuts. 
If you have a regular blender, pour wet mixture from blender into a bowl, where you can combine with dry ingredients, apples and nuts. 
To finish either method: 
Allow fully incorporated mixture to stand 10 minutes. 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line or grease muffin tins. Spoon into tins (the batter will be very thick) and bake for 18 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. (12-14 for mini muffins) 
Yum 
I recommend storing any baked good made with flax in the refrigerator, unless you’re going to consume them all within 1-2 days. Flax just seems to mold quickly, possibly because of the unstable omega-3s that are so healthy for us to eat. (More on how to store flax seeds and flax oil.) 

I also recommend, of course, enlisting the kids to help on this one like the pic below! Yes, kids CAN use sharp knives safely on those apples, measure ingredients carefully and stir a uniform mixture…we teach them how in our incredible Kids Cook Real Food eCourse, in fact. 😉 

A grain free muffin recipe that you won't need fancy ingredients to make. Flax is the start player in this gluten free and delicious treat. 


Like I told you last week when I detailed the difficulties of going grain-free and gluten-free, eating with others is the greatest challenge. I’m so thankful my sister-in-law made it really, really easy on us for an entire Lenten weekend. 

If you’re just here for the healthy snacks, you might also enjoy these banana flax muffins (although not grain-free), found in my Healthy Snacks to Go eBook. 
Katie here – gluten-free can be confusing but it doesn’t have to be hard! I’m thrilled to share a FREE gluten-free cheat sheet mini eBook to help get you started! 
This is perfect if you’ve just been told you need a GF diet, if you have a friend or family member eating GF and you’d like to cook for them, or if you’re just curious what it’s all about! 
Free gluten-free guide for rookies 
YES! I WANT THE FREE GF CHEAT SHEET! 
A grain free muffin recipe that you won't need fancy ingredients to make. Flax is the start player in this gluten free and delicious treat.See my full disclosure statement here. 


FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Recipe Connection: Easy Paleo {Grain-Free} Banana Pancakes 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Grain free, dairy-free paleo pancake recipe for breakfast, using bananas and eggs - no weird flours! Paleo breakfast pancakes have never been so simple and so nourishing! 

I shared this paleo pancake recipe last week on Twitter in well less than 140 characters. 

Brace yourselves. 

I’ll flesh it out a little more today, but rest assured it’s THAT brain-dead easy. 

It’s really nice having some grain-free options to take the place of traditionally grain-filled breakfast foods. We miss our oatmeal, so options like this simple paleo pancake that take us beyond “eggs or yogurt?” for a grain-free Lent make me happy. 

Grain free, dairy-free paleo pancake recipe for breakfast, using bananas and eggs - no weird flours! Paleo breakfast pancakes have never been so simple and so nourishing! 

Simple Paleo {Grain-Free} Banana Pancakes 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
10 mins 
Total time 
15 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Serves: 2-3 adults 
Ingredients 
3 bananas, slightly overripe is fine 
3 eggs 
3 Tbs oil (melted butter or coconut oil), optional 
1+ tsp. cinnamon 
chopped walnuts, optional 
¼ c. yogurt cheese, optional 

Instructions 
Mash the bananas well, then mix in all the other ingredients. I usually use my hand blender, but I've also done it with a fork (just takes longer). Use a potato masher for chunkier texture. 
Fry in lots of fat until brown on the bottom, flipping once. 
Really let the pancakes get brown on the bottom before attempting to flip, as they’re very fragile. A quick move with an extremely thin spatula is the way to go. (See Notes for an adaptation to make them easier to flip.) 
Serve with butter and real maple syrup. However, they’re typically so sweet you don’t need the syrup. 
The leftover pancakes can be stored in the refrigerator and reheated in a toaster oven just like you would grainy pancakes, although you probably won’t really have leftovers unless you make a double batch. 
(I only know the fat is optional because I forgot it this week! Best to leave it in though…) 
Notes 
The pancakes are very, very thin, hard to flip and time-consuming if you use a stick blender especially. If you add a Tbs. or two coconut flour (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!), they handle much better. Cutting down on the fat may help as well. 

Frozen and thawed bananas are fine. 

Variations: adding mini chocolate chips is a super fun celebration breakfast, like for a birthday or first day of school. 


A Few Other Grain-Free/Paleo Breakfast Options 
paleo grain free granola 

I promised you yesterday in the “go big” Monday Mission that I’d share the grain-free granola recipes I played with this weekend: 

Grain-free granola (recipe found in the newly expanded Healthy Snacks to Go eBook, pictured above): The first time we made this recipe, we may have kind of eaten it all in one day. In fact, I had to say to my husband, “Please leave a little for me to try with milk in the morning!” Winking smile 
Sometimes you really just want to grab something and go, without all the prep. I hear you!! Have you ever tried to find a soaked-oats granola in the store? Pretty hard, isn’t it… but Thrive Market has you covered! I found this Apple Crisp Granola that won’t break the bank (or your teeth!) – and it’ll be delivered right to your door. Receive 15% off your first order, no coupon required. 
The grain-free almond apple pancakes (which used to be in this post as well, if you’re looking for them from a bookmark or pin) are over here with better photos (like the one below)… 
I also made a couple varieties of power bars (reverse engineered Larabars) from my eBook Healthy Snacks to Go this weekend. 
We could eat these grain-free “pumpkin” pancakes at least once a week, which can be made with coconut flour (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!), almond flour, whole wheat, and even sourdough starter! They also don’t always use pumpkin. 
Although I haven’t made them yet this Lent, last fall we regularly enjoyed the coconut muffins found in the newly expanded Healthy Snacks to Go eBook: they’re super moist and easy to make! 
Here are some tasty grain-free apple flax muffins. 
Grain free, dairy-free paleo pancake recipe for breakfast, using bananas and eggs - no weird flours! Paleo breakfast pancakes have never been so simple and so nourishing! 

Also keep in mind that Health, Home & Happiness has entire grain-free menu plans with breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks. A wealth of information! 


The Healthy Breakfast BookIs breakfast monotonous at your house? Uninspiring? Or worse…processed? Get a little inspiration from The Healthy Breakfast Book, over 60 recipes plus efficiency tips and sample meal plans to make every breakfast nourishing. This recipe is just one of the great ideas in the book! 

Get the whole premium package with bonus mini eBooks and Kindle/Nook files right HERE. 


Disclosure: I am an affiliate of the grain-free menu plans, so making a purchase supports two bloggers at once! Smile See my full disclosure statement here. I am also an affiliate of Thrive Market and will make a commission if you make a purchase through my links but it doesn’t change your price. 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


The Best Scrambled Eggs Ever 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

How do people make time for nourishing foods for breakfast, amid all the hustle and bustle of mornings and getting out the door? I have to admit, being a stay-at-home-mom without kids in school yet makes this a whole lot easier, but there are still days when we have to be on the go. 

The BEST scrambled eggs for breakfast - and super easy! Make scrambled eggs as fast as cereal but pumped up with major . I did this every day when I was pregnant! 

It’s hard not to rely on boxed cereal, or at least high-carb things like toast, muffins, etc. We do a lot of oatmeal, especially in the winter, but I know that getting protein in our bodies in the morning is important. Particularly when I’m pregnant, I try to eat eggs often, two a day when possible. Last year when I was expecting our little one, my son and I would eat scrambled eggs about four times a week. 


The Healthy Breakfast BookIs breakfast monotonous at your house? Uninspiring? Or worse…processed? Get a little inspiration from The Healthy Breakfast Book, over 60 recipes plus efficiency tips and sample meal plans to make every breakfast nourishing. This recipe is just one of the great ideas in the book!Get the whole premium package with bonus mini eBooks and Kindle/Nook files right HERE. 

The BEST scrambled eggs for breakfast - and super easy! Make scrambled eggs as fast as cereal but pumped up with major . I did this every day when I was pregnant!
Here’s the easy system to eggs-as-quick-as-cereal and the secret ingredient to the fluffiest eggs you’ll ever eat: 

Be sure to use the best eggs you can find, especially if you are expecting.  


4.7 from 3 reviews 
The Best Scrambled Eggs Ever 
 

Print 
Prep time 
1 min 
Cook time 
5 mins 
Total time 
6 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Breakfast 
Ingredients 
Butter 
Eggs 
Cottage cheese (secret ingredient!) 
Spinach 

Instructions 
Put pan on stove and turn burner on medium heat. 
Grab from fridge: butter, eggs, cottage cheese (secret ingredient!) and spinach, if any is washed. 
Run stick of butter around pan a few times. (Why real butter only?) 
Throw handful of spinach in pan or a few cubes of frozen spinach (optional). 
Use spoonula (one of my favorite kitchen gadgets!) to scoop cottage cheese into pan. (Ratio is about 2-3 Tbs cottage cheese for every two eggs. This is especially excellent for pregnant women because cottage cheese has a lot of protein, oh-so-important for growing babies. Be sure to use full fat cottage cheese – here’s why.) 
Break eggs directly into pan. 
Mix with spoonula: turn heat to medium-low. 
Continue to stir periodically as eggs cook. 
During this time, you get the plates and forks out, put stuff back into the fridge, get toast going, put dishes away from last night’s dinner, corral kiddos into the kitchen…all the stuff you’d usually be doing before or after pouring the milk on the cereal. 
Add optional shredded cheese, definitely if you’re expecting (bring on the protein!). 
Eat! Yummy! 


Note: Sometimes the water content of the cottage cheese makes the eggs look a little runny. Don’t worry, they are fully cooked. Decrease cottage cheese next time if you don’t like it. 

The BEST scrambled eggs for breakfast - and super easy! Make scrambled eggs as fast as cereal but pumped up with major . I did this every day when I was pregnant! 

Does this seem crazy? 
An 11-step “recipe” for scrambled eggs, for heaven’s sakes? There are some nuances I want you to notice and appreciate, though, and maybe you won’t think I’m so crazy, just extremely conscious in the kitchen. 

Getting everything out of the fridge at once saves steps. You just need to make sure you know what you need when you open the door. 
If you put the cottage cheese in first, you don’t have to use an extra spoon to dip it out, because the spoonula (or spatula) doesn’t have raw egg on it yet. Plus the cottage cheese gets a chance to melt a bit before meeting the eggs. 
Spinach combines with egg yolks to reduce inflammation — you can use frozen spinach too. I just open the box when I get home from the store and the spinach is slightly soft, use a sharp knife to cut it into 1″ chunks, and store in a bag. One or two chunks is great for scrambled eggs: just allow a little time for it to thaw in the pan. 

Scrambling in the pan avoids yet another dirty dish. (Can you tell I hate doing dishes?) 
Cooking eggs slowly on low heat just makes them taste better and have better texture. Thanks to my mom for that one! 
UPDATE: The Schwarzbein Principle books confirm that cooking eggs over low heat is important to preserve the fatty acids in the egg yolk. 
If you can rationalize the time it takes for the eggs to cook by doing other need-to-do ts, making eggs in the morning really doesn’t take any longer than pouring cereal, especially if people have different kinds of cereal and you have to get out multiple boxes. 
If you’re using a non-stick pan, my brother would say just wipe it out with a paper towel and use it again the next day! Apparently avoiding dishes runs in the family (which is funny, because my mom doesn’t seem to mind it). 
If you use a cast iron or stainless steel pan, add water right away and bring to a rolling boil – this will release all the cooked on egg junk that is soooo hard to get off later! 
The BEST scrambled eggs for breakfast - and super easy! Make scrambled eggs as fast as cereal but pumped up with major . I did this every day when I was pregnant! 
Read the Food for Thought about why eggs are a Super Food for more inspiration! 

Include other Super Foods in your day: 

Homemade Chicken Stock/Broth 
Intro to Super Foods Series 
How to Use More Beans 
Easy Homemade Yogurt 
See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Apple Squares Recipe (You can Freeze ‘Em!) 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Looking for a quick and easy snack or dessert? These apple squares are a cinch to make and freeze well for when you really need them!I have a bad habit of leaving things in my freezer too long.  It’s not that I don’t know they’re there.  In fact, I’m very organized and (almost) always have a good handle on what’s in my freezer.  It’s just that I’m such a born conservationist.  I tend to think, “I need to save these for when I really need them,” (surprise visitors, need a quick meal, etc.).  My husband is quick to point out when something is freezer-burned.  There’s the nasty taste and aroma, and sometimes things get dried out or too chewy.  It’s always a bonus, then, when I can find a recipe that will let me have my flaws and eat them too. 

These apple bars may actually be more moist after a year and a half in the freezer than on day one!  Yes, I’ve left them in there that long before.  They come out in incredibly good shape, and you can just eat (serve) them without even having to microwave them to moisten them up.  Truly melt in your mouth. 

This passes for a breakfast bar, snack food, or a dessert (looks like cake, smells like cake, melts in your mouth like cake…).  It’s the perfect fall food when apples are in season and plentiful.  I made a double batch last week to share with my Bible study gals and again yesterday for Baking Day. 

The Healthy Breakfast BookIs breakfast monotonous at your house? Uninspiring? Or worse…processed? Get a little inspiration from The Healthy Breakfast Book, over 60 recipes plus efficiency tips and sample meal plans to make every breakfast nourishing. This recipe (with multiple variations!) is just one of the great recipes in the book. 

Get the whole premium package with bonus mini eBooks and Kindle/Nook files right HERE. 


Looking for a quick and easy snack or dessert? These apple squares are a cinch to make and freeze well for when you really need them! 

The original recipe is from 30-Day Gourmet’s Freezer Cookbook that I checked out from the library a few years ago.  Here it is, (then keep going for my healthy upgrades): 

Apple Squares 
 

Print 
Cook time 
25 mins 
otal time 
25 mins 
 
Note: Ingredients often use affiliate links to Amazon and Tropical Traditions, but obviously you should shop for the best price and try to keep your dollars local when you can. 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Snack 
Ingredients 
Apple Squares 
2 c. white flour 
1 t. baking soda 
1 t. cinnamon 
½ t. salt 
1 c. coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) 
1¾ c. sugar 
4 beaten eggs 
2 t. vanilla 
2 c. unpeeled, chopped apples 
½ c. nuts (optional) 
Frosting 
1 ½ c. powdered sugar 
2 T. butter, melted 
3 T. water 
1 t. vanilla 

Instructions 
Preheat over to 350 
Stir dry ingredients together. 
In another bowl, beat oil, sugar, eggs, and vanilla. 
Add dry to liquid ingredients, beating well. 
Stir in apples and nuts. 
Pour into greased 15x10x1 cookie sheet. 
Bake 25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. 
Frost once cooled or mostly cooled. 
Notes 
I, of course, am the short-cut girl. I beat the wet ingredients together first, then add the flour and all the other dry ingredients right on top and pseudo-mix them together then mix everything up. 

*Other fruits (blueberries, drained pineapple, sweet cherries) may be substituted for apples. 

Yum 
Looking for a quick and easy snack or dessert? These apple squares are a cinch to make and freeze well for when you really need them! 

Healthy Upgrade 
Replace half of the white flour with whole wheat flour 
Replace half or even the whole cup of oil with applesauce (Not that I’m afraid of fat, you know, but it’s neat to be able to make something so apple-y in the fall!) 
Reduce the sugar by ¼ cup (or more!) 
HealthiER Upgrade 
Use 100% white whole wheat flour OR 
Use coconut oil or melted butter (I used half homemade applesauce, half coconut oil and butter mixed.  It was just that kind of day, running out of everything!) 
Add the walnuts – so tasty and full of omega-3s! 
healthy apple dessert cake 
Don’t overbake them or they’ll lose the moist-ness that makes them great! 

Because these freeze so very well, it’s worth it to double the recipe every time.  I made a single batch today as part of Baking Day and kind of regretted only having 24 squares to share with Buddy Boy’s school group Friday and for ourselves.  The only part that really takes more time is the apple chopping.  I happen to have the best 4-year-old helper in the world.  Check this out: 

What a serious look on his face! He's a hard worker, for real. 
What a serious look on his face! He’s a hard worker, for real. 

He says, Mom, I'll do it all. You don't cut anything. Independence (stubborness) is in his genes, I'm afraid. I cored and quartered the apples and he did the rest! (That's a cheese slicer, not a butcher knife, by the way.) 
He says, “Mom, I’ll do it all. You don’t cut anything.” Independence (stubborness) is in his genes, I’m afraid. I cored and quartered the apples and he did the rest! (That’s a cheese slicer, not a butcher knife, by the way.) 


I mentioned Monday that I’d share my meatloaf/meatball recipe and how I freeze them, but that’s going to have to be next week.  We’re talking animal fats next week anyway, so it sort of fits! 

Other Fall Recipes: 

One-bowl Pumpkin Muffins 
Cabbage Pumpkin Soup 
6 Ways to Use up Leftover Pumpkin 
Chicken Barley Leek Soup 
I’m participating in: 

Life as MOM’s Ultimate Recipe Swap: Make-Ahead Foods 
Hoosier Homemade’s Holiday Food Fest ~ Fall Desserts 
Grocery Cart Challenge Recipe Swap 
Finer Things Friday at Amy’s Finer Things 
Slightly Indulgent Mondays at Amy’s Simply Sugar and Gluten-Free (I feel badly about linking up such a gluten-filled recipe – check out some ghee, too!)
Mouthwatering Mondays at A Southern Fairytale 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 


START RECIPE


Soaked Healthy Pumpkin Muffins Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Does soaking make a difference? It’s the million dollar question of the week (and weeks to come). There is enough anecdotal evidence that soaking does something, something good, that I’m still a believer, even as I research further. 

My One-Bowl Healthy Pumpkin Muffins became a huge hit last fall and remain one of my most popular posts, often discovered via search engines. They deserve all those accolades and more. They are the easiest, most moist muffins you’ll ever find. The only person in the world who doesn’t like them is our 4-year-old neighbor. Trust me. 🙂 

It took one batch of concave muffins, still moist but rather dense, for me to nail the soaked version, which really is within 95% as good as the original. 

So good with properly soaked grains-- you must try this soaked version of pumpkin muffins! 

I’m fiddling with all sorts of things for my upcoming Healthy Snacks to Go and Have Your (Healthy!) Dessert and Eat it Too eBooks. Sometimes I even take samples when I go out to meet others for dinner. This recipe has a cameo in Healthy Snacks, along with a handful of reverse engineered Larabars, and I’ve got a workable soaked whole wheat brownie recipe that will be golden with a few s. Drooling yet? Heh heh heh. 🙂 

NOTE:  Recipe updates and a nicely formatted printable version of this and 30 other “Healthy Snacks to Go” recipes now available as an eBook! 

Without further ado, here’s your weekend snack: 

5.0 from 3 reviews 
Soaked Famous Pumpkin Muffins 
 

Print 
Prep time 
24 hours 
Cook time 
45 mins 
Total time 
24 hours 45 mins 
 
Note: Ingredients often use affiliate links to Amazon and Tropical Traditions, but obviously you should shop for the best price and try to keep your dollars local when you can. 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Bread 
Serves: 12 
Ingredients 
1⅔ cup white whole wheat flour 
1 c. pureed pumpkin 
¾ c. water 
2 Tbs buttermilk or plain yogurt 
½ c. melted butter or refined coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) 
1 c. sugar or sucanat 
2 eggs 
½ tsp. baking powder 
1½ tsp. baking soda 
¾ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. cloves 
½ tsp. cinnamon 
½ tsp. nutmeg 

Instructions 
Soak white whole wheat flour, pureed pumpkin (optional), water, buttermilk/yogurt, and butter/coconut oil together overnight or for 12-24 hours on the countertop. 
When ready to bake, add the sweetener, eggs, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and 3 spices. Mix well - be sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl a few times and beat hard to get everything fully incorporated. 
Pour into muffin cups and bake 40-45 minutes at 325 degrees F (35-40 with honey). They’ll be a bit more moist than you’re used to with the “toothpick test”. 
Do not overbake! 
Allow to rest 5 minutes in the tins, then tip out to cool on racks. 


Sometimes soaked versions of recipes can leave something to be desired. The ultimate compliment on this one:  Husband said, “Yum!” and he didn’t notice anything different than normal. Yee-hah! 

If you’d like to see the other versions, including the original with white flour all the way to a no-white-sugar option, see the first healthy pumpkin muffins post.

Adapt Your Own Recipes 
Many recipes can be adapted for soaking, some easily, some take a little more work. Quickbreads aren’t the easiest, but biscuits, pancakes, breads, and tortillas are usually no problem. 

1. How much liquid does your recipe call for? The cookbook Nourishing Traditions claims that 1 Tbs acidic medium per cup of liquid will satisfy the requirements for the proper soaking pH. Adjust your recipe likewise. For example, if your bread recipe contains 3 cups of water or milk, start with 3 Tbs of whey, vinegar, lemon juice (etc.) in your measuring cup and add liquid to complete the 3 cups. 

2. Mix the liquid and flour (or oats or other grains) together 12-24 hours before baking. Overnight is usually a convenient time. You can include the fat and/or sweetener in the recipe at this point if you would like. 

3. Leave the mixture covered to soak at room temperature, or better yet, somewhere even warmer. The oven with the pilot light (or just oven light) on is a great place for soaking. 

4. In the morning or after the 12-24 hour soak, when you are ready to complete the recipe, simply add the remaining ingredients and bake as directed. 

If your recipe calls for yogurt or buttermilk anyway, that is sufficient to satisfy the acidic medium. You won’t have to add anything to the recipe: just mix the yogurt/buttermilk and flour or grains overnight, then proceed with the recipe as written. 
Special instructions for yeast bread: Since the yeast cannot be added for the overnight soak, you’ll need to withhold 1/2 cup of water from your recipe with which to ‘proof’ the yeast. When you’re ready to finish the dough, mix the yeast with 1/2 cup water and sweetener, proof for 5 minutes at room temperature, then add to the dough that has been soaking overnight. Knead and allow to rise as directed in your recipe. 
For biscuits, tortillas, or other bread products that call for cutting a solid fat into the flour, then adding a liquid, just make the dough as you normally would except add the acidic medium to your liquid and withhold the salt or baking powder/soda. (Salt inhibits the soaking process.) Leave the nearly-finished dough on the counter overnight, and gently (in the case of a pastry) add the salt before baking. If you find that your pastry is overhandled with this method, you can add the salt at the beginning and just do the best you can with the soaking. 
If you adapt a recipe that uses baking powder to rise like muffins or cornbread, you may need to decrease the baking powder and add up to 1 tsp. baking soda to make up for the sour factor in the soaking medium. Try the recipe normally first, but if your result is more dense than you’re used to, adjust as needed. 
I learned the trick of adding some baking soda (and sometimes reducing the baking powder) from the More-with-Less Cookbook’s cornbread option using sour milk. The acidity of sour milk, buttermilk, or yogurt necessitates a small change in the rising agent. Concave muffins aren’t that cute! 

You can see the ever-so-simple directions for soaking oatmeal too, and if you’ve never soaked anything, that’s a great place to start! 

So good with properly soaked grains-- you must try this soaked version of pumpkin muffins! 


If you feel like soaking grains or other traditional foods preparation techniques are a bit foreign to you, do consider taking the GNOWFGLINS eCourse, where you’ll learn through video, audio, recipes, and textual information how to get comfortable with 14 different techniques. There’s also a sourdough eCourse that I’m teaching a few lessons in! 

Disclaimer: I am an affiliate of the eCourse and will receive a commission if you sign up through this site. I would sing Wardeh’s praises anyway, but I sure appreciate her sharing the love and your support for KS by purchasing here. Thanks! 

See Food Renegade for Fight Back Friday and The Nourishing Gourmet for Pennywise Platter Thursday. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Sourdough Recipes Galore: Variations on Sourdough Muffins 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

120 
Sarah Wood has made my life so much easier this week!  Her recipes have been fabulous, and now I even have a few new things to try.  (Sourdough pizza is planned for Sunday – we gave up seconds for Lent but will enjoy unlimited feasting on the solemnity!) 

Here is her last contribution to the cause of helping us all create a sourdough starter without letting it take over our kitchen.  I think Sarah should start her own blog: don’t you think she’s done wonderfully here this week?Pumpkin muffins using the discard from sourdough starter  

Soaked sourdough muffins (for discarded starter) 
 

Print 
Author: Sarah Adapted from a recipe by Mike Avery 
Recipe type: Bread 
Ingredients 
1 C “discarded” sourdough starter 
1 C whole wheat flour (sift flour prior to measuring) 
1 egg 
1 tsp vanilla 
¼ tsp salt 
1 tsp cinnamon (optional) and/or other spices 
¼ C melted coconut oil or melted butter 
½ C honey 
1 tsp baking soda 
~1/2 C blueberries (or pumpkin puree or whatever add-in you like!) 
1 C “discarded” sourdough starter 
1 C whole wheat flour (sift flour prior to measuring) 
1 egg 
1 tsp vanilla 
¼ tsp salt 
1 tsp cinnamon (optional) and/or other spices 
¼ C melted coconut oil or melted butter 
½ C honey 
1 tsp baking soda 
~1/2 C blueberries (or pumpkin puree or whatever add-in you like!) 
Equipment: 
Stand mixer 
Plastic wrap 
Medium mixing bowl 
Muffin tins 
Instructions 
In a stand mixer, combine sourdough starter and whole wheat flour.
Once the two are thoroughly combined, cover the dough with plastic wrap ensuring that none of it is exposed to the air. 
Let sit at room temperature for at least seven hours. 
The dough will rise some while it sits. 
If any of it has gotten exposed to the air and gotten dry, just remove those bits so you don’t have little dough nuggets in your final product. 
When you’re ready to bake, preheat the oven to 400 degrees. 
Prepare a muffin pan with papers or grease the cups. 
In a separate bowl, mix together all other ingredients except for blueberries and baking soda. Add those ingredients to the dough in the mixer’s bowl and mix together. 
Once all the ingredients are mixed and have come together as a batter, sprinkle the baking soda in the bowl and mix batter again briefly to incorporate. 
Fold in blueberries and scoop batter into prepared muffin pan. 
Bake for 20 min. Makes 8-12 muffins. 
Notes 

 
 * I have also made this recipe as pumpkin muffins. Instead of blueberries, mix in ½ C pumpkin puree (I add it to the same bowl in which I’m mixing the egg, honey, oil etc.). In addition to the cinnamon, I also added about ¼ tsp ground cloves, ¼ tsp ground coriander and ¼ tsp ground nutmeg. Adjust spices to your liking.  


 
 * Katie’s note: There’s still baking soda in the muffins, so don’t worry if your starter doesn’t seem like it’s ready to have much lifting power yet! 


 
 * Papier Mache: Ok, so this one really isn’t a recipe, but I did use discarded starter for papier mache once! After all, papier mache is just flour and water. Two parts water to one part flour, so just add some more water to your starter and have fun crafting! 


Why Sourdough? Be amazed at the Health Benefits of Sourdough. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Which Olive Oil to Buy? The Olive Oil Fraud! 
Real Food for Life 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest120 


START RECIPE

One-Pot Sweet & Savory Chicken with Cabbage Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship Leave a Comment 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 



When  your 3-year-old and 6-year-old boys both like a meal with cabbage, apples and chicken, what do you do? 

Cheer and run around like a crazy woman because it’s a miracle. 
Figure out how to make it quick and easy with only one pot. 
Put on your skeptical hat because there’s no way it can last. 
All of the above.  <<<This is the answer!!! 
It’s totally cabbage season in the fall, but they’re so inexpensive and healthy any time of year that this is a huge winner for us. 

It actually started because we were testing some pre-prepared meals from The Good Kitchen and one was “Apple & Sage Roasted Chicken over Braised Red Cabbage with Fennel & Apple” — and those little boys ed for THIRDS. 

Thirds, people! And it wasn’t chicken nuggets, but chicken with cabbage! 

We used the meals because I was out of the house for dinner, so by the time I heard the great news, I didn’t even get to taste one. But for the next week, I thought, “We are going to figure out how to make this at home.” 

I wrote in my meal plan (which is really just a pen-and-paper list right now, because it’s the meal planning style that works for me), “cabbage apple fennel dish” for Wednesday, knowing that I planned to go grocery shopping Monday, and I could get fennel. 

Well. That meal planning style might be what I’ve fallen into, but there are better options because it didn’t really work out! I didn’t end up shopping Monday, so by Thursday, I still wanted to make this dinner, had nothing else planned, and no fennel. 

Creating a Simple Recipe for Cabbage, Apples and Chicken 
We are blessed with an amazing babysitter on Thursdays who is all about real food and can cook – plus she likes grocery shopping with our 3-year-old. My list for her had “Dinner?” on it and she ed me, “So, no plans for dinner yet?” 

(It happens sometimes.) 

I explained how my plan had gone awry, and she said she’d grab some fennel at the store and make something up. 

*cue angels singing* 

This dish is what we had for dinner, and I had to share it with you all right away! 



Why Cook with Cabbage, Apples and Fennel? 
Kitchen Stewardship is always dedicated to serving up the best recipes for your health AND budget, which is why cabbage, apples and chicken thighs (not breasts) make their frugal appearances in this meal. But is it healthy? 

The whole thing is of course low in carbs and grain-free/gluten-free, but the main ingredients also have some star health benefits that we can’t ignore: 

Health Benefits of Fennel 
Fennel is: 

high in fiber 
a good source of potassium 
a decent source of Vitamin A (16% DV in a cup) 
some Vitamin C, although not a super strong source 
If you’re seeking foods for heart health and anti-cancer properties, fennel should be on your list. (source) 

Health Benefits of Apples 
Apples are of course super frugal, but also: 

are rich in antioxidants and flavanoids 
support the detox system and glutathione 
are high in fiber 
contain quercetin which supports the nervous system 
find more in our awesome printable to align your cycle with the food you eat 

Health Benefits of Cabbage 
Cabbage is actually a great source of 

Vitamin K (almost 100% DV) 
Vitamin C (50% DV) 
Fiber 
packed with antioxidants, which actually last 3-4 days after eating! 
Red cabbage fights Alzheimer’s (feel free to use red in this recipe, or try this cancer-fighting salad) 
One-Pot Sweet & Savory Chicken with Cabbage Recipe 
 

Print 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
45 mins 
 
Author: Leah Hankins 
Recipe type: main 
Serves: 4-6 
Ingredients 
2 Tbs. olive oil 
3 lbs. chicken thighs, sliced 
2 tsp. garlic powder 
1 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. pepper 
1-2 tsp. allspice 
1 fennel bulb, sliced (save fronds for garnish_ 
2 medium apples, sliced thinly (Granny Smith adds a great tartness) 
½ tsp. mustard powder 
1 tsp. salt 
½ tsp. black pepper 
1 tsp. allspice 
2 garlic cloves 
¼ c. apple cider vinegar 
1 medium green cabbage, sliced 
optional- a couple teaspoons of maple syrup 
Instructions 
In a deep cast iron pan or wide-bottomed stainless steel pot, heat olive oil. 
Sear the chicken on high, allowing it to cook about a minute on each side. 
Add the garlic powder, salt, pepper and allspice and toss with the meat: cook chicken about 5 minutes each side or until no pink is visible inside. 
Prep the apples and cabbage and crush the garlic while waiting. 
Remove cooked chicken. 
Add the fennel to the same pan and sauté for a couple minutes over medium heat (add more oil if needed). 
Add apples, mustard powder, salt pepper and allspice. 
Sauté together until caramelizing (browning) begins, about 5 minutes. 
Put the fresh crushed garlic in and stir around for 1 minute. 
Pour in the ACV and add the cabbage. (It always seems like it's way too much, but trust us - cabbage cooks down like nobody's business, so stuff as much in as your pot will fit!) 
Toss together over medium heat until the cabbage is tender. 
Sample and add more seasoning or maple syrup to taste. 
Toss the chicken back in with the cabbage (or you can serve it on the side). 
Garnish with the pretty parts of the fennel. 

I had forgotten that the recipe we were trying to mimic had sage, so that could be a possible addition as you play with making this recipe your own. If you don’t love the tang of vinegar you could easily cut that down by half as well. 
And if you’d rather do it all in the oven, fill some sheet pans with the ingredients (tossed in the sauce) and roast at 400F until everything gets caramelized. The chicken thighs will likely only take 15-20 minutes, especially if you slice them first (maybe quicker) but the vegetables will need a good half hour to get browned. 

We had the Good Kitchen version again just last night as you can see on Instagram and boy, are those nice when an evening isn’t as normal! (I got my wisdom teeth out this week – will post on that soon!) The Good Kitchen meals are microwavable but we almost always just tip them out onto a cookie sheet and bake for 15-20 minutes. Still so easy!! Use the code KS15 for 15% off the first order!!! 

Good Kitchen meals x3 on a cookie sheet 

I’ve Found the Perfect Tongs 
If you are a member of the Kids Cook Real Food eCourse, you’ve seen our kids use my wooden Pampered Chef tongs for sauteeing veggies and tossing salads, but for slippery cabbage, these new tongs I got as a product sample are THE BOMB. 



Here are my fav features, other than the truly low price for a set of 2: 

easy to lock and unlock 
silicone on the handles so kids don’t burn fingers even if they’re left too close to the stove 
has a little rest thingy that means no MESS on the counter! 
dishwasher safe 
They’re so much nicer than any other tongs I have (and I might have a few too many in the ol’ drawer). Christmas list stocking stuffers, ladies!!! 

GRAB THE TONGS NOW!  

(LOL pun intended!) 

Now make that shopping list so you can have fennel ready for this one!! 
GOT CABBAGE LEFT? 
Sometimes they are much bigger than a “medium” cabbage!!! 

Chicken Turmeric Soup with Cabbage & Coconut 
Simple Cabbage Soup with Secret Superfood 
Slow Cooker “Unstuffed” Cabbage Rolls 


FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Which Olive Oil to Buy? The Olive Oil Fraud! 
Real Food for Life 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Sweet and Sour Meatballs Recipe {AIP & GAPS Friendly} 
Mary Voogt (Contributing Writer) 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

23 
Instant Pot Sweet And Sour Meatballs - GAPS & AIP allergy friendly meal. Quickly have a healthy dinner everyone will love! Such a kid friendly dinner or great for a party too!This post is from contributing writer Mary Voogt of Just Take A Bite. 

I just got an Instant Pot. Yes, I’m kind of late to the game here. It seems everyone has had one for a while now. (Still unsure if you should get one? Check out Katie’s reasons why you should and 1 reason why you shouldn’t) 

But I’ve held out. And didn’t even get one until I got it as a gift! 

Why? Because I love my crockpot. It’s one of my favorite kitchen appliances. I use it several times a week. And I’m never disappointed with the food that comes out of it. 

It probably helps that I’m a major planner (you can read my weekly meal plans for the last five years!). So I usually don’t have to worry about last-minute meal plans. In fact I prefer to do all of my dinner preparations first thing in the morning! 

But sometimes life happens – sick kids, unexpected outings, home school agenda went longer then anticipated. You get the idea. Having an Instant Pot makes an affordable real food dinner possible when days don’t go as I planned. 

What Does an Instant Pot Newbie Cook? 
Instant Pot Sweet And Sour Meatballs - GAPS & AIP allergy friendly meal. Quickly have a healthy dinner everyone will love! Easy for an Instant Pot newbie to make. 

I’ll be honest – I haven’t used it a whole lot yet. But so far my favorite thing to make in my Instant Pot is meatballs. 

Meatballs are a staple on our menu. With lots of allergies I can make super simple versions. Then have mix and match sides to meet everyone’s needs. Plus I can get the meatballs ready during nap time (or even one handed with a toddler in my arms) and dinner is a snap. 

Make your Instant Pot work for you!
The Instant Pot has gotten a lot of hype over the last couple years – for good reason. It really can do just about anything. 

Although it can seem a bit daunting to use at first, it really becomes quite simple once you give it a try. 

Use the techniques, tips and simple recipes from the Instant Pot Guidebook to get started, and before you know it, your Instant Pot will become indispensable! 

Get the Instant Pot Guidebook for FREE! 

One Recipe – Many Diets 
I actually came up with this recipe for sweet and sour meatballs years ago when I was on the GAPS diet. It started out as a skillet meal (that my friends and family rave about). Then I got too busy with little kids to stand at the stove before dinner so I turned it into a crockpot meal. 

Now I’ve transformed it into an Instant Pot recipe that is not only very allergy friendly and GAPS friendly but also Auto Immune Paleo friendly! It’s pretty much a win for everyone. 

I keep spices and seasonings very simple. I have one child with oral SPD (you can read about it here) that can’t handle the slightest bit of spice. You can add your own twist with your favorite spices. 

Did I mention these sweet and sour meatballs are loaded with nutrients? They have broth, vegetables and liver! 

Instant Pot Sweet And Sour Meatballs - GAPS & AIP allergy friendly meal. Quickly have a healthy dinner everyone will love! Quick to assemble and your Instant Pot does all the work.

4.7 from 3 reviews 
Instant Pot Sweet and Sour Meatballs Recipe {AIP Friendly} 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
1 hour 
Total time 
1 hour 5 mins 
 
Ingredients 
1½ lbs. grassfed ground beef 
1 tsp unrefined sea salt 
1 tsp. dried basil 
3 capsules (about 1 tsp.) desiccated liver(or more if you like) 
1 cup bone broth (any variety works) 
1 cup pureed pumpkin 
¼ cup honey (more or less to taste) 
Instructions 
Combine the beef, salt, basil and liver. Mix well. 
Roll beef into meatballs (slightly smaller than a golf ball for meals, half that size for appetizers) and place in the Instant Pot. 
Pour the broth, pumpkin and honey over the meatballs. 
Turn on the Instant Pot and set to 35 minutes. Allow the IP to naturally release the steam. 
If desired remove the meatballs, cook the sauce on the sautee setting until it reaches desired thickness. Put the meatballs back in the sauce until ready to serve. Or drain the sauce and cook it in a sauce pan on the stove for about 5 minutes, until it reduces and thickens. 
Serve the meatballs on rice, noodles, cauli-rice, zucchini noodles, spaghetti squash or butternut squash and topped with the sauce. 

Stop struggling to source the best ground beef! 
Butcher Box’s beef is not only free of antibiotics, hormones and GMOs, but it is raised 100% on pasture raising the nutrient content. 

Try it today and you’ll get FREE bacon and $10 off your first order! Use the code KS10 at checkout. 

Easy  is My Priority 
As a mom my goal is to feed my kids great-tasting nutrient-dense food. These meatballs fit that description perfectly. 

The amount of effort it takes to make them is so minimal too. My eight-year old can make them by herself (especially since she’s been doing the Kids Cook Real Food ecourse). There is about five minutes of hands-on prep time. Then turn on the IP and let it go. 

Instant Pot Meatballs – How Did They Do? 
Instant Pot Sweet And Sour Meatballs - GAPS & AIP allergy friendly meal. Quickly have a healthy dinner everyone will love! Serve with a veggie side for a quick kid friendly dinner the adult will enjoy too! 

I was curious to see how the meatballs in the IP would compare to the ones I make on the stove and in the crockpot. Thankfully they are just as delicious! 

The only difference is that the sauce does not thicken while the meatballs cook in the IP. So after the meatballs are done cooking you simply remove them, let the sauce thicken on sautee and then put the meatballs back in for a minute to make sure they’re warm and covered in sauce. You can also thicken the sauce on the stove top. Whichever makes life easier. 

Traditional Cooking School Instant Pot Sourdough Cornbread Pressure Cooker Recipe 
My dear friend Wardee at Traditional Cooking School can do just about anything with her Instant Pot – cakes, bread, main dishes, veggies, even “stacking” multiple kinds of food at once! 

She’s offering a free sourdough cornbread Instant Pot recipe! 

This cornbread is delicious, nutritious, super easy to make, and it only needs 12 minutes of cook time. 

GET THE FREE INSTANT POT SOURDOUGH CORNBREAD RECIPE 
Depending on your dietary needs you can serve the meatballs over rice, noodles, cauli-rice (Katie’s IP recipe), zucchini noodles, butternut squash (make it in your IP) or spaghetti squash. I personally love them over some kind of vegetable. Of course we always serve a vegetable on the side as well. So there is potential for three types of vegetables in one meal. That is a great way to make sure you are getting a variety of vitamins and minerals (and help feed your mitochondria too!) 

A Quick Party Appetizer 
When you need an appetizer for your next party this is the perfect allergy friendly option. Just make the meatballs bite size. Serve in the Instant Pot on the keep warm or low slow cooking function and have a side of toothpicks for guests to serve themselves! 

If you’re looking for an easy, nutritious dinner or appetizer that your kids will love this is it! Instant Pot sweet and sour meatballs will soon be a family favorite.  

Instant Pot Sweet And Sour Meatballs - GAPS & AIP allergy friendly meal. Quickly have a healthy dinner everyone will love! Perfect to serve at a party as an appetizer. 

Do you have a favorite meatball recipe? Or a favorite Instant Pot recipe? Share in the comments! 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Which Olive Oil to Buy? The Olive Oil Fraud! 
Real Food for Life 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
Facebook23TwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Instant Pot Beef BBQ Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

That moment when you realize it’s too late and dinner is torpedoed? Been there. 

You may know this story: 

You were going to start the slow cooker with chuck roast beef barbecue after breakfast and it just didn’t happen…and you knew it would be no problem to start it after lunch for 4 hours on high instead of 8 hours on low…but then suddenly it’s 3:30 and you realize that dinner is now an impossibility. 

Will you have to fall back on spaghetti and jarred sauce? Or popcorn and a smoothie? Or worse…get takeout because goodness knows you can’t do anything other than a slow cooker meal with the tough cut of meat you have thawed!!?? 

Instant Pot to the Rescue for your Chuck Roast! 
Instant Pot Beef Barbecue using a 3-pound chuck roast 

You can make just about any slow cooker meal into an Instant Pot meal, and then even 4:30 or 5:00 isn’t too late to save dinner. 

In fact, it’s so easy to do, I’ve adapted recipes right WHEN it’s already too late for the slow cooker, and the good ol’ Instant Pot still has time to save dinner. 

Make your Instant Pot work for you! 
The Instant Pot has gotten a lot of hype over the last couple years – for good reason. It really can do just about anything. 

Although it can seem a bit daunting to use at first, it really becomes quite simple once you give it a try. 

Use the techniques, tips and simple recipes from the Instant Pot Guidebook to get started, and before you know it, your Instant Pot will become indispensable! 

Get the Instant Pot Guidebook for FREE! 

Usually I just press the button that corresponds to the meat I’m cooking, but in this case with a large 3-pound roast, I needed to quickly Google a few other pressure cooker beef roast recipes to see if I needed a bit longer time. 

After finding a few with the right size roast from trusted sources like Hip Pressure Cooking and my friend Katie at Wellness Mama, I decided to nearly double the “meat/stew” button’s 35 minutes and use a natural pressure release to make Instant Pot beef barbecue. Usually you want to make sure food isn’t overcooked in the Instant Pot, but with this not-so-tender cut of meat, I wanted it literally falling apart and knew I couldn’t possibly pressure cook it too long. 

Instant Pot Beef Barbecue using a 3-pound chuck roast - fast kid-friendly dinner from an old slow cooker recipeThe recipe is adapted from my favorite slow cooker cookbook, Stacy Myers’ Crock On. 

Instant Pot Barbecue Beef Roast 
Instant Pot Beef BBQ Recipe 
 

Print 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
90 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 40 mins 
 
Your Instant Pot can make a tough chuck roast into tender, shredded barbecue beef as quickly as 90 minutes, start to finish. Compare this pressure cooker time to 4 hours on high in a slow cooker! Use on sandwiches, over rice, or as a Paleo main dish with lots of veggies. 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: main dish 
Serves: 6-8 servings 
Ingredients 
3 lb. beef chuck roast 
6 oz. can tomato paste 
2 Tbs. yellow mustard 
2 Tbs. dry minced onion 
1 tsp. garlic powder 
1 tsp. Real Salt 
1 tsp. pepper 
2 Tbs. apple cider vinegar 
water 
Instructions 
For added flavor, brown the roast first. (Totally optional, will add 10-15 minutes to the recipe.) Press Saute on the Instant Pot. When the display reads Hot, add a Tbs. of cooking oil (coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) is a good choice) and let the roast sizzle a few minutes on each side. If you don't brown the roast, simply place it in the bottom of the IP. 
In a 2-cup measuring cup, mix the tomato paste, mustard, onion, garlic powder, salt, pepper and ACV. 
Add water to reach 2 cups total, stir, and pour over the roast. 
Check the sealing ring and lock the Instant Pot, turning the valve to sealing. 
Press Meat/Stew and use the + or Adjust button to increase the timing to 60 minutes. 
It will take about 15 minutes for the unit to get up to pressure and start the countdown timer. 
When the cycle is finished and the IP beeps, allow 10-15 minutes for a natural pressure release (in other words, ignore it for a while). If you're in a real hurry, the meat will be cooked and just not quite as tender if you open the lid immediately after the cycle ends. 
Open the valve to venting to release any remaining steam, twist off the lid, and use two forks to shred the beef. You can do this in the pot or on a separate plate. Sometimes it will be falling apart so much you just have to stir it up with a spoon and it shreds itself. 😉 
If you have the time, return the meat to the Instant Pot and put the lid back on for a bit while it's still on warm to allow the meat to soak up more juices.
Serve hot. 
Optional: Use the juices to make seasoned rice! (see below for instructions) 
Optional: If you'd rather have thick sauce over your beef, add a tablespoon or two of arrowroot starch to the juices while the shredded meat is in there. Press cancel and then saute and stir around for few minutes until thickened. 
Notes 
* This meat freezes excellently. Simply cool and store in a freezer-safe container or zippered bag. Thaw completely and heat on the stove (or in a slow cooker or Instant Pot) with a bit of water or the juices from the original roast.  
* Leftover cold meat works great in a lunchbox as well! A sandwich would get a bit soggy by lunchtime, which is why we just send it with mustard and some sides or homemade crackers. Get 50 more ideas for school lunches in my popular eBook, The Healthy Lunch Box. 
* Not sure where to source quality grassfed beef? Sometimes online ordering is the only choice, if you don't have a farmer in your area. We've had good luck with ButcherBox, and you'll get a gift with your first order via that link. 

Even with a regular meal planning habit and my trusty online Plan to Eat software to do half the work for me, there’s still room for human error on the plan, like forgetting to start the slow cooker, bah. Thank goodness I could try this at 3:00 at still have dinner at 5 to make it to church school on time! 

Instant Pot beef roast for barbecue beef - in sandwiches, over rice, or Paleo style with sides 

Our Gluten-Free Cheater Method for Instant Pot Beef BBQ 
You may notice that in my photos there’s an absence of the traditional “on a bun” part of pulled beef BBQ. We generally eat gluten-free or even grain-free as a family, and I just don’t buy buns. We’ll put meat dishes like this sometimes over rice or just with some potatoes for carbs (as shown – fried potatoes because with the whole running-late thing, I didn’t have time for bakers!). 

The cool thing about the Instant Pot requiring a bit more water than a slow cooker is that you get a lot of flavorful juices – and I’ve often taken to making rice right in those juices! Instant seasoned rice. Score! 

To do so, remove the meat from the pressure cooker, and while you’re shredding it, get rice going. Measure what you have left and add half as much dry rice to the pot. In other words, if you have 2 cups liquid, stir in a cup of rice. You can always add a bit more water or broth to make an even cup measurement if you don’t like fractions. Winking smile 

The Instant Pot will heat up a little faster because the juices are already warm, and you can speed it along even more by pressing the “Saute” button for a few minutes, then canceling that out before choosing your timing for the pressure cooking. 

For white rice, just lock the lid in place (valve to “sealing”) after checking the lid for any mess/obstructions from cooking your meat, and press the “rice” button. That will be 12 minutes on low pressure, and you can do a quick release as soon as it’s done. Your meat should still be warm, especially if you cover it with a lid or something after shredding. 

You may find you need to add salt to the rice to bring out the flavors properly – don’t be afraid to do so! Even adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt is still going to be less sodium than processed foods. 

To make brown rice, use a lower water-to-rice ratio of about 1.5 cups liquid to 1 cup rice. Set the pressure cooker to 25 minutes on high pressure or use the “multigrain” function on the Instant Pot (but be warned that that’s a 40-minute cook time, so don’t use it if you’re in a hurry!). Sometimes it works great to serve the “instant flavored rice” with the leftovers of this beef roast. 

More Instant Pot Recipes and Techniques 
I’ve had more fun playing with my Instant Pot over the past year-plus than any other kitchen toy – I mean, tool – in a long time. And I’ve been busy! Here’s just a sampling of all our Instant Pot posts here at KS: 

Instant Pot Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oats 
Cauliflower Rice in the Instant Pot 
10 Basic Techniques done Faster in the Instant Pot 
Instant Pot Whole30 Boneless BBQ Ribs 
How to Cook Frozen Ground Beef in the Instant Pot 
And if you love shredded beef recipes, this Chipotle Style Beef Barbacoa for the slow cooker that also uses a chuck roast would very easily adapt to the Instant Pot as well. (In fact, we’ll add instructions to the recipe soon once it’s fully tested!) 

Traditional Cooking School Instant Pot Sourdough Cornbread Pressure Cooker Recipe 
My dear friend Wardee at Traditional Cooking School can do just about anything with her Instant Pot – cakes, bread, main dishes, veggies, even “stacking” multiple kinds of food at once! 

She’s offering a free sourdough cornbread Instant Pot recipe! 

This cornbread is delicious, nutritious, super easy to make, and it only needs 12 minutes of cook time. 

GET THE FREE INSTANT POT SOURDOUGH CORNBREAD RECIPE 
Have you tried adapting a recipe for the Instant Pot or pressure cooker? How did it go? 
Pin This! 
Instant Pot Pulled Beef Barbecue using a 3-pound chuck roast - fast kid-friendly dinner from an old slow cooker recipeDisclosure: Plan to Eat is a current sponsor of Kitchen Stewardship receiving their complimentary mention in a post.  

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Which Olive Oil to Buy? The Olive Oil Fraud! 
Real Food for Life 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Bake and Serve: Garlic Maple Chicken Recipe 
Bethany Wright (Contributing Writer) 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe 9This post is by contributing writer, Bethany Wright of WoodhavenPl.com. Find her KS posts here. 

I’ve always been someone who wants to have a signature dish. You know, the kind you become famous for – and maybe even have people beg you to make it for them. 

My mom has several signature dishes (oriental lemon chicken being among them). And while they taste DELICIOUS, they are also a labor of love to make. 

When my homesteading friend shared this recipe idea with me, I knew I had finally found one of my signature dishes. It was juicy. It was yummy. And the best part — it was ridiculously easy to make and EVERYONE loved it. 

Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe Take and Bake 

I’m a big fan of sharing food with others. In fact, my very first post for Kitchen Stewardship was all about sharing food with your neighbors. I love that this Garlic Maple Chicken is something that is so fast to make, you can quickly make it for others (without killing yourself). AND it’s easy to adapt for food allergies! 

Bonus: You can also assemble the recipe and freeze it. When you’re ready for dinner, just thaw and cook! Instant meal! 

Garlic Maple Chicken 
Begin by placing chicken breast, tenders, or thighs (your choice) in a large pan. I’m using foil pans here because I’m making these meals to give away. Sprinkle salt, pepper, and garlic powder over the chicken. 

UPDATE: We had one reader in the comments feel that this dish was too bland. If you’re a flavor-lover (like myself), don’t be shy on the garlic powder or pepper. Personally, we find the dish plenty flavorful as-is. So maybe experiment half-and-half with your baking pan. This is a WONDERFULLY adjustable recipe. 

Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe 1 

Put pats of butter on each chicken breast — or 8-10 pats if using thighs or tenders. This is a GREAT activity to have your kids help you with. They can use a dull butter knife to slice off wedges of butter. (Just don’t do what I did and wait until your kid is in first grade before you ever let them use a butter knife, mmmkay?) If you need to be dairy-free, coconut oil can work. 

Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe 2 

Lastly, lightly drizzle maple syrup. Mmmmmmmmmmm. The sweetness of the maple syrup gives this recipe a delightful finish. 

Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe 3 

That’s it. Simple and delicious.  
Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe 4Most importantly, don’t discard the juice left in the pan!!!!! Be sure to ladle it over the chicken — it is soooooo delicious. 

3.7 from 3 reviews 
Bake and Serve: Garlic Maple Chicken 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
20 mins 
Total time 
25 mins 
 
This simple, flavorful, and moist baked chicken recipe is a top favorite in our home. And it's so easy to make, it's perfect to take to a friend! 
Author: Bethany Wright 
Recipe type: Main Course 
erves: Serves 6 
Ingredients 
1-1.5 lbs. chicken (breasts, tenders, or thighs) 
¼ - ½ tsp. garlic powder (to taste) 
⅛ tsp. salt (to taste) 
8-10 pats of butter 
⅛ - ¼ c. maple syrup (to taste: less is fine) 
Instructions 
Place chicken in a baking dish. 
Sprinkle on garlic powder, as well as salt and pepper to taste. 
Top the chicken with pats of butter. If using breasts, put one pat per breast. 
Drizzle maple syrup lightly across the top. 
Bake uncovered at 375F for 20-25 minutes until internal temperature reaches 160F. 
Serve chicken and ladle juice across. 

As I mentioned before, we took this meal to some friends of ours, pairing it with a salad, fresh raspberries, and roasted potatoes. They loved and raved about it — and I’m glad it was a huge hit! 

Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe 6 

HELPFUL HOSPITALITY TIP 1: 
If you’re making this meal to give away, cover your pan with foil and write the cooking instructions ON THE FOIL COVER with a sharpie. Don’t verbally give cooking instructions. I guarantee they will be forgotten! 

Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe 7 

HELPFUL HOSPITALITY TIP 2: 
Since the oven will be on to bake the meat, this meal pairs easily with roasted potatoes (cubed potatoes + olive oil + salt and pepper + rosemary). I also wrote instructions on the potato pan: Uncover and bake at 375F for 45 minutes. And I added a note to add the chicken pan at the last twenty minutes of cooking. 

Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe 5 

What’s your favorite meal to share with others? Tell us in the comments below! 
Maple Garlic Chicken Recipe for Facebook 

Winners! 
The three winners of last week’s Redmond Trading giveaway are: 

Karie W. 
Meg F. 
Melissa C. 
Winners have been emailed with redemption instructions. Didn’t win? You can still get 15% off your entire purchase at Redmond with coupon code Kitchenstew. Enjoy! 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

10 DIY Christmas Ornaments You Can Make with Your Kids 
Blissfully Domestic 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE

Whole30 BBQ Boneless Pork Ribs in the Instant Pot 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

137 
Barbecue with NO sweetener, soy, or ketchup, perfect for Whole 30 or Paleo diets! The Instant Pot makes these boneless pork ribs fall apart tender in an hour. You'll love the deep flavor in these spices. 

I’ve been trying so many new things with this Instant Pot challenge! I’ve purchased a few kinds of meat I never tried before, and these “country style boneless pork ribs” that I bought for a Vindaloo recipe definitely count. 

I had half a package leftover (Costco!) and was getting a little tired of Mexican or Asian. I wanted BBQ! 

But hubby was still doing a Whole30, so no sweetener allowed. That killed 97% of the recipes I looked up! And I don’t stock liquid smoke, which killed the rest. 

BBQ Pork Ribs with no Sweetener? Sure, says my Instant Pot! 
Whole30 BBQ Pork Boneless Ribs in the Instant Pot - this recipe is perfect for a Sunday dinner or to invite company over. 

I ended up having to make up the recipe on my own using a few for inspiration, but very loosely. 

I’m super thrilled with how it turned out, with the meat just falling apart delicious and oh so much flavor. The only problem? It would have been better with rice – all those juices!  

Barbecue with NO sweetener, soy, or ketchup, perfect for Whole 30 or Paleo diets! The Instant Pot makes these boneless pork ribs fall apart tender in an hour. You'll love the deep flavor in these spices. 

The kids had it good served with leftover rice, and in fact we ended up with a whole quart jar of juices for leftovers. I needed more rice! 

Make your Instant Pot work for you! 
The Instant Pot has gotten a lot of hype over the last couple years – for good reason. It really can do just about anything. 

Although it can seem a bit daunting to use at first, it really becomes quite simple once you give it a try. 

Use the techniques, tips and simple recipes from the Instant Pot Guidebook to get started, and before you know it, your Instant Pot will become indispensable! 

Get the Instant Pot Guidebook for FREE! 

But I titled this recipe “Whole30” so it’s not very nice to put rice in all those photos. Here’s how hubby and I ate it, with sauteed cabbage, red peppers and mushrooms, plus roasted root veggies, a new frozen prepared bag I found at Costco. That’s my kind of “processed food!” 

Barbecue ribs with NO sweetener, soy, or ketchup, perfect for Whole 30 or Paleo diets! The Instant Pot makes these boneless pork ribs fall apart tender in an hour. You'll love the deep flavor in these spices. 

 Recipe: Pressure Cooker Barbecue Boneless Ribs 
4.0 from 1 reviews 
Whole30 BBQ Boneless Pork Ribs in the Instant Pot 
 

Print 
Prep time 
20 mins 
Cook time 
70 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 30 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Main Course 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
2 Tbs. olive oil, lard, or other cooking fat 
1 large onion, sliced 
2-2.5 lbs. boneless pork ribs (country style) 
For the rub: 
2 tsp. salt 
½ tsp. white pepper (or black is fine if you don't have white) 
1 tsp. garlic powder 
1 tsp. smoked paprika 
½ tsp. coriander 
½ tsp. thyme 
¼ tsp. allspice 
For the sauce: 
1 c. tomato sauce 
1 c. stock (beef or chicken) or water 
2 Tbs. red wine vinegar 
2 tsp. mustard powder 
½ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. garlic powder 
½ tsp. dried ginger powder 

Instructions 
Turn the Instant Pot on to Saute. Add the oil, and when it's hot, add the onion. 
Stir that around for at least 5 minutes, although 10 would be better to get it brown/caramelized. 
Meanwhile, mix the spice rub by blending the salt, white pepper, garlic powder, smoked paprika, coriander, thyme, and allspice. 
If the onions seem to be cooking along too fast, hit the cancel button. You can go back to sauteeing at any time if you think it needs more. 
Once the onions look and smell delicious, rub the spice blend on the pork and put it all into the IP on top of the onions. (I plunked the pork in the pot and poured the spices over and moved them around with my spoon because I don't like getting another bowl out and digging my hands into raw meat. Whatever works!) 
Mix the sauce together in a bowl or glass measuring cup: tomato sauce, stock or water, vinegar, mustard powder, salt, garlic powder, and dried ginger. 
Pour the sauce into the bottom of the Instant Pot, trying not to pour the spices off your meat. 
Close and lock the lid and make sure the valve is closed.  
Press the Meat/Stew button, which is 35 minutes on high pressure (with about 15-20 minutes to get to pressure). 
Allow for natural pressure release at the end of the cook time. 
The ribs should be just falling apart. Serve over rice, noodles, or mashed potatoes, or for Whole30/Paleo, serve with lots of sauteed or roasted veggies and a big old baked white or sweet potato. 
You'll have lots of juices leftover, which go awesome on rice as a side dish in a future meal, as a sauce for a veggie saute, or as the start for a leftover soup with your meat and some other ingredients. 
Notes 
**Just use regular paprika if you don't have smoked. If you have liquid smoke, add that to get more of the BBQ flavor. 

**Surely could be done in a slow cooker for 8 hours on low. Skip the water/stock as it wouldn't be needed, and saute the onions separately if you want that flavor (or use dried onion if you don't care!). 


I had to fight off the family just to take these pictures…and then they promptly ate my props. I didn’t even get any of the leftovers at all! 

Speaking of no leftovers…sometimes you don’t want any, like if you’re cooking while traveling. Check out this post to see how I made this meal in a hotel room with the Instant Pot and allowed my family to swim like fish! 

Barbecue with NO sweetener, soy, or ketchup, perfect for Whole 30 or Paleo diets! The Instant Pot makes these boneless pork ribs fall apart tender in an hour. You'll love the deep flavor in these spices. 

By the way, if you don’t usually buy boneless ribs, I am sure these spices and sauces could also be used with many other cuts of pork,  pretty much anything you’d throw into a slow cooker like a shoulder roast, or even a beef chuck roast. It’s just a little bit zingy but mostly just full-bodied flavor. 

Feel free to thicken up the sauce by adding arrowroot starch after cooking (it will burn on the pot if you add it before). 

Have high quality pork shipped directly to you! 
Butcher Box’s pork is not only free of antibiotics, hormones and GMOs, but it is raised 100% on pasture raising the nutrient content. 

Try it today and you’ll get FREE bacon and $10 off your first order! Use the code KS10 at checkout. 

Pressure cooker barbecue ribs with NO sweetener, soy, or ketchup, perfect for Whole 30 or Paleo diets! The Instant Pot makes these boneless pork ribs fall apart tender in an hour. You'll love the deep flavor in these spices. Works in the Instant Pot or slow cooker. 

Traditional Cooking School Instant Pot Sourdough Cornbread Pressure Cooker Recipe 
My dear friend Wardee at Traditional Cooking School can do just about anything with her Instant Pot – cakes, bread, main dishes, veggies, even “stacking” multiple kinds of food at once! 
 
She’s offering a free sourdough cornbread Instant Pot recipe!

This cornbread is delicious, nutritious, super easy to make, and it only needs 12 minutes of cook time. 

GET THE FREE INSTANT POT SOURDOUGH CORNBREAD RECIPE 
Have you ever made a homemade BBQ without sweetener? 

More Instant Pot Treasures 
Cooking Real Food with an Instant Pot Series 

10 Basic Instant Pot Techniques (some may surprise you!) 
Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oats in the Instant Pot
Simple Cauli Rice in the Instant Pot (no food processor needed!) 
Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Dinner 
Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken 
Instant Pot Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup (can also be made in the slow cooker) 
How to Make Slow Cooker Recipes in the Instant Pot 
…and more to come this week and next! 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

10 DIY Christmas Ornaments You Can Make with Your Kids 
Blissfully Domestic 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE

Cheeseburger Soup (with bacon and pickles, oh yeah!) 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

This Cheeseburger Soup Recipe is just what it sounds like, including the bacon and pickles - so healthy, kid-friendly, and simple. 

One of our favorite sitcoms poked fun at old folks’ homes last season and showed a main character sipping “lasagna in a glass.” He was very impressed that it tasted “just like the real thing!” 

I can’t imagine whizzing lasagna into an Italian smoothie, pasta and all, and stuffing it in a glass, but last week I did teach you how to remake fajitas in a soup pot, and this week we’re putting a whole cheeseburger, pickles and all, into a bowl of soup…so maybe I’m not all that far from crazy after all. 

We’ve made and enjoyed this cheeseburger soup many, many times, but I had to make sure I made it one last time before posting, partly to make sure I had the description written perfectly and mostly so I could take some good pictures, since I’d never slowed down enough on a regular dinner to snap any. 

This Cheeseburger Soup Recipe is just what it sounds like, including the bacon and pickles - so healthy, kid-friendly, and simple 

It’s a hit with children and adults alike (and you can leave the pickles out if they bother you). I took cheeseburger soup to a friend having her sixth baby last spring, and she also ed for the recipe – so if someone with 5 kids and a newborn is going to bother to make it, you know it’s easy and delicious! You might want to make a double batch right off the bat just so you have leftovers for lunches or the freezer. 

We had our neighbors over to share the pot of soup in the pictures, and they gave the best skeptical review a cook can receive: “Especially when I saw the pickles, I didn’t know if I’d like it, but I’m going to need this recipe!” I also had to kidnap the last lonely bowl of leftover soup from the pot before anyone went back for thirds just so I had something to take photos of the next day: 

This Cheeseburger Soup Recipe is just what it sounds like, including the bacon and pickles - so healthy, kid-friendly, and simple 

I adapted the recipe from Simple Food {for winter} by Shannon of Nourishing Days – it’s one of four recipes we’ve enjoyed from the book (and I just put a half dozen more on my to-make list while browsing the table of contents). I’ve cut the meat and added beans, reverse engineered the ketchup, and added some additional vegetables (and optional rice: Shannon’s book is grain-free). Good thing I had cooked rice on hand and tossed it in at the last minute the other day or this would have been a very boring, picture-less post! 

This Cheeseburger Soup Recipe is just what it sounds like, including the bacon and pickles - so healthy, kid-friendly, and simple 

As I mentioned in the last monthly newsletter, “Secrets found in a weekly pot of soup,” the ability to freeze, thaw, and reheat marvelously is one reason to make a big pot of soup at least once a week. Check out the newsletter here for the other 9 reasons, and be sure to sign up for the newsletter to get my current freebie. 

Are you ready for a cheeseburger in a bowl, without the mushy bun? 

5.0 from 1 reviews 
Cheeseburger Soup 
 

Print 
Prep time 
20 mins 
Cook time 
15 mins 
Total time 
35 mins 
 
Note: Ingredients often use affiliate links to Tropical Traditions, but obviously you should shop for the best price and try to keep your dollars local when you can. 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 6 
Ingredients 
1 lb. ground beef 
1 large or 2 medium onions, diced 
3-4 stalks celery, diced 
~4 medium carrots, diced 
2 lbs. potatoes or turnips, diced (~6 medium, unpeeled is fine) 
2-4 cloves garlic, minced, or ¼-1/2 tsp. garlic powder 
1-2 tsp. salt, to taste 
⅛-1/2 tsp. pepper, to taste 
2 c. home-cooked kidney or white beans (or 1 can), or cooked lentils 
4+ c. beef or chicken stock (up to 8 cups)* 
⅓ c. tomato sauce or 2 Tbs.tomato paste 
½-1 Tbs. honey or molasses, optional 
¼ c. yellow mustard (prepared) 
1-2 c. grated cheddar cheese (I prefer sharp) 
Optional add-ins: 
2 c. cooked brown rice 
chopped broccoli 
shredded zucchini 
sauteed mushrooms 

Instructions 
Crush garlic and allow it to sit to activate its health benefits. 
In a large pot, brown beef over medium heat. Add onions and celery and cook until translucent. 
As you chop them, add the carrots and potatoes/turnips, then stir in the crushed garlic, salt and pepper. Cook 1-2 minutes, stirring often. 
Add the beans or lentils, stock, and tomato sauce/paste. 
Bring to a boil. Cover and simmer 10-15 minutes or until vegetables are soft. 
Stir in optional sweetener and mustard: taste to see if more salt is needed. 
Turn off the heat and stir in the cheese until it is melted. (It's okay to leave the heat on if you need to keep the soup warm to serve.) 
Serve with chopped dill pickles, cooked and crumbled bacon, additional shredded cheese, sour cream, and any other “burger” toppings you enjoy, like raw onion, green olives, mushrooms, avocado, etc. 
Notes 
*With only 4 cups broth, the soup will be thick, very much a “stoup.” If you add any of the optional add-ins, you'll need at least 6 cups broth, and it will still be very thick. 
Goes great with biscuits or homemade rolls (why not homemade hamburger buns?). We enjoy a grain-free cheesy biscuit from A Whole Food Holiday or the gluten-free version of my mom's homemade biscuits that I've been working on. 
Adapted from Simple Food {for winter}. 


Other Nourishing Soups: 

Steak Fajita Soup (or chicken) 
Huge round up from many bloggers: October Fest Carnival of Super Foods, Broth Edition 
My soup pin board on Pinterest 
This Cheeseburger Soup Recipe is just what it sounds like, including the bacon and pickles - so healthy, kid-friendly, and simpleShare with friends – first the post, then a big pot of soup! 

Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Nourishing Days, Tropical Traditions, and a Whole Food Holiday from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

10 DIY Christmas Ornaments You Can Make with Your Kids 
Blissfully Domestic 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Make a Silly Muffin Meal {Recipe: Smashed Potato & Pea Muffins} 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

A Silly Muffin Meal 

Would you serve a main dish of muffins with a side of muffins, followed by muffins and with muffins, of course, as the bread – and muffins for dessert? 

I did. 

My family thinks I’m goofy, but that’s kind of the point. 

We’re having fun with food this week. 

If you enjoyed my silly pancake meal at all, this one is even better, trust me. It’s all the goodness of real food and all the fun of muffin cups, all the time. 

The Muffin Menu 
A Meal of Muffins (10) (475x317) 

Main dish :: Meat and Spinach Muffins, in either Greek or Pizza flavors 
Potato side :: Smashed Potato and Pea Muffins (recipe below) 
Rice and veggie side :: Zucchini-Rice Muffins 
Side bread :: Gluten-free Bacon-n-Green-Onion Muffins 
Dessert :: Gluten-free Cinnamon Date Muffins (with homemade frosting, optional) 

That’s actually a bit more starch than we’d usually have in one meal, but I’ll offer more veggie-heavy adaptations, too. 

As you might imagine, I’ll be posting muffin recipes all week long – so be sure to sign up for a free email subscription or grab my reader feed so you can compile the whole meal. You can also follow me on Twitter, get KS for Kindle, or see my Facebook Fan Page. 

Some Muffin Madness Tips 
A Meal of Muffins (1) (475x317) 

It’s not an everyday thing to make this many muffins at once! To make the meal run smoothly, you might want to: 

…make grain-based muffins and rice muffins ahead of time. Any of them could be made ahead, really. It’s tough to orchestrate all at once. 
…either bake the dessert muffins a day or more in advance (freeze them) or have the batter ready to bake while you’re eating dinner. I recommend the former for sanity’s sake… 
…improvise. Potato muffins do okay just sitting in paper muffin liners on a cookie sheet, if you’re like me and have only one regular muffin pan and one mini. 
…reuse paper liners and muffin tin without washing in between. If you make the grain-based and rice muffins first, they pop out of the papers effortlessly (at least if you’re using unbleached muffin liners on Amazon, no promises about other paper cups: they don’t always act the same way). The you can fill the same cups with meat and potatoes. 
I didn’t think I wanted to make mini muffins of any of these, but they turned out well for every single variety, my kids had fun with them, AND they cook a lot faster when things are piling up waiting for their turn in the oven! I loved being able to give the kids a taste without feeling like I was piling up their plate. Minis are great! 

I am thinking about replacing my nasty nonstick muffin pans (another reason I use liners) with either cast iron muffin pans or stainless steel muffin pans (links take you to a round-up of many brands on Amazon). I’m just not sure which kind yet… 

Closeup Muffin Experience 
Here’s a little closer tour of our muffin meal. Don’t forget to come back the rest of the week to grab the actual recipes! 

GREEK CHICKPEA-BEEF MUFFINS 
Greek Chickpea-Meat Muffins (3) (475x317)Greek Chickpea-Meat Muffins (17) (475x317) 


SPICY PIZZA MUFFINS 
Pizza Meat Muffins (16) (475x317) 

UCCHINI-RICE MUFFINS 
Zucchini Rice Muffins (1) (475x317) 

SMASHED POTATO AND PEA MUFFINS 
Mashed Potato and Pea Muffins (4) (475x317) 

GLUTEN-FREE BACON-AND-GREEN-ONION MUFFINS 
Gluten Free Bacon Green Onion Muffins (1) (475x317) 


DESSERT MUFFINS: DATE AND CINNAMON 
Dessert Muffins with Frosting (3) (475x317)Dessert Muffins with Frosting (16) (475x317) 

Recipe: Smashed Potato and Pea Muffins 
Mashed Potato Muffins 

Your kids will love playing hide and seek with the peas in these muffins. They’re a fun addition to a silly muffin meal! 

Smashed Potato & Pea Muffins 
 

Print 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
55 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 10 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 4-6 
Ingredients 
4 medium or 6 small potatoes 
OR 3 c. already smashed potatoes 
¼ tsp. garlic powder or a clove or 2 fresh crushed garlic 
1 beaten egg 
¼ c. cottage cheese 
2 Tbs. butter 
¼-1/2 tsp. salt 
pepper to taste 
½ c. frozen green peas 
Instructions 
Wash and boil the potatoes for about 15 minutes or until soft in salted water. (If using fresh garlic, add it to the water as it will be too strong straight up in the potatoes.) 
Drain the cooked potatoes. 
Add all the other ingredients and smash with a potato masher or other handy utensil. Mix well. 
Put a big spoonful of potatoes into each large muffin cup, and add a scoop of frozen peas, then top with more potatoes. They won't change shape, so fill the cups as much as you wish. 
For mini muffins, you probably want to stir the peas right in since they're a bit too small for hide-and-seek peas. 
Bake at 375F for 40 minutes, 15-20 minutes for mini muffins. 
Makes about 10-12 muffins or 24 minis. 


Other Muffin Options 
Once you start making muffins out of everything, you start wondering what else might be able to go into a muffin cup. Winking smileGrain Free Biscuit Muffins (2) (475x317)I tried grain-free biscuits (almond flour based, adapted from this recipe) last night, and they turned out great! In fact, I think I liked the little mini biscuit-muffins better than the regular biscuit shape. 

Update later that week: I’ve now tried the spelt biscuit dough from my Healthy Snacks to Go ebook and another grain-free biscuit dough, this one using 2 cups of walnuts and 4 egg whites. They both worked as muffins too! I’m feeling pretty confident that any biscuit recipe would make (delicious) muffin shapes. Let me know if you try your favorite! 

Grain Free Biscuit Muffins (21) (475x317) 

John agrees… 

Grain Free Biscuit Muffins (8) (317x475)Aren’t those spoons gorgeous? They’re my review sample for the next giveaway, coming next week! 

I’d love to try sliced potatoes piled up in a muffin cup, maybe baking them from raw potatoes. I think the layers would be so pretty from the side. Mashed sweet potatoes certainly should work fine for the potato muffin as a much lower carb option. 

I still want to try mashed cauliflower muffins, using the idea of the potato muffins but with cauliflower. It’s on the meal plan for tonight, as a matter of fact. I’ll let you know how it goes on Facebook. 

Update that night: The mashed cauliflower, made pretty much like the smashed potatoes but with steamed cauliflower and an immersion blender, worked pretty well. The muffins don’t come out of the wrappers quite as easily, but when they do, they stay together in muffin form. Bring on the vegetables! 

I also think that the rice muffins could be grain-free with just about any two cups of finely chopped veggies, maybe with a little something gummy like potato or pureed something – cauliflower? Sweet potato? – to help hold together. The egg alone might be enough, and that would make an awesome all-veggie side for this silly meal. 

For a meatless muffin meal, we’ve had egg muffins for breakfast before: we use about a cup of veggies, some ham or sausage if desired, and 10-12 eggs for 12 muffins. They bake at 400F for 18-20 minutes. If you try this, definitely use muffin cups. Eggs are awful to clean out! 

Another easy option for the meat muffins is to make mini meatloaves, using whatever recipe your family already enjoys (here’s my adaptable meatloaf method). Bake them in muffin cups, and really have fun with it by piping smooth mashed potatoes on top in a swirl like grocery store cupcake frosting! I didn’t get quite that fancy, but wouldn’t it be cute? 

What do you want to try in a muffin cup to see if it works? 

Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Amazon and Honeyville Grain from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. See my full disclosure statement here. 

FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Real Food Spooky Halloween Shepherd’s Pie 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

I was the cool mom last year for Halloween. 

Not only did I let my kids have more than one piece of candy in a day, but I also made a really cool dinner, appropriate to the season: 

Spooky Ghost Shepherd's Pie for Halloween 

Sometimes, even stuffy, boring adults like me have to let loose and do something fun (like make Shepherd’s pie into dinner with mashed potato ghosts on top). 

A casserole, soup or chili (Recipe available in The Everything Beans Book) is a great idea for Halloween, since they can all be made ahead and ready right on time so your little monsters and clowns can scarf down dinner and hit the Trick-or-treat trail. 

This particular casserole is also packed with veggies, nourishing bone broth, meat (mine is grassfed), and some starch for staying power. Besides all that, it’s delicious. 

Recipe: Ghoulish Shepherd’s Pie for Halloween 
spooky ghost shepherd's pie for halloween (11) (500x375) 

Real Food Spooky Halloween Shepherd's Pie 
 

Print 
Prep time 
1 hour 
Cook time 
20 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 20 mins 
 
Your kids will love these cute Halloween ghosts, and you'll love the vegetables and nourishment packed into this humble Shepherd's Pie, perfect to fuel trick-or-treaters (and fill their bellies before the temptations of candy!). 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: main dish, kid-friendly 
Serves: 8-10? many! 
Ingredients 
2½ lb. red potatoes, chunked 
3 cloves crushed garlic (or ½ tsp. garlic powder), divided 
4-6 slices bacon, optional but yummy 
1 lb. ground beef or turkey 
(note: a great chance to sneak in liver or heart…) 
1½ tsp. paprika 
1½ tsp. cumin 
1 tsp. ground thyme 
freshly ground pepper 
1 medium onion, chopped 
2-4 carrots, diced 
2 celery ribs, diced 
½ red pepper, chopped 
1-2 c. chopped broccoli, including stems 
1 c. frozen peas 
4 Tbs. flour (or arrowroot starch) 
1 c. chicken or beef stock or broth 
1 c. plain yogurt, divided 
1 egg 
2 Tbs. butter 
¼ c. cottage cheese 
½-1 tsp. Real Salt, to taste (or other unrefined sea salt) 
½ c.+ shredded cheddar cheese, divided (sharp is best) 
Instructions 
Boil potatoes with a clove or two of crushed garlic and some sea salt and cook on medium-low until tender, about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, get busy in another medium-large pot. 
Cook the bacon, drain grease, chop bacon and set aside. In the same pot, brown the ground meat. Drain grease if necessary. [If you're low on time, you could have the bacon going in a frying pan next to the big pot to speed things up. Or better yet, maybe you are smart and have some already cooked bacon in your freezer!] 
Season meat with paprika, cumin, thyme, salt and pepper. Add onions, carrots, and celery. Cook about 5 minutes to soften veggies, then add red pepper, broccoli, peas, and remaining crushed garlic. Cook 2 minutes. Put the bacon back in. 
Stir in flour (or starch), and cook and stir 2 minutes (to get rid of the flour taste). Add broth and ½ c. yogurt and bring to a low simmer. 
Preheat the oven to 375F. (You can also refrigerate the casserole and bake later if you'd like.) 
When the potatoes are tender, stir a ladle of the cooking water into one beaten egg in a small bowl. Drain the potatoes. You can leave them in the pot a few minutes to dry out a bit if you’re still working on all those veggies in the other pot! 
Smash the potatoes with butter, ½ c. yogurt (or sour cream), salt, pepper, and cottage cheese plus ¼ c. of the shredded cheddar. Add the egg mixture and stir well.
Pour the meat mixture into an oval or 9×13 casserole dish (usually both, this recipe tends to grow like the loaves and fishes!). 
Top with potatoes and sprinkle the remaining ¼ c. cheddar cheese on top. You’ll likely need extra cheese if you divided the meal into two pans. 
To make the ghostie potatoes, either get creative with a spoon and fork or load the potatoes into a frosting decorator, or even a plastic food storage bag with the corner cut off, and make a spiral shape as the potatoes come out. Place two peas on top for eyes. Try shredded cheese for hair if you want rock star ghosties! 
Bake 20 minutes until bubbly and the cheese is melted. 
Notes 

 
 *This recipe freezes great once in the pan. To reheat a frozen casserole, thaw completely and bake at 350F 30-40 minutes until bubbly. You may want to leave the shredded cheese off before you freeze, then add it the last 10 minutes of baking. It’s helpful to cover the casserole with an inverted cookie sheet for the first 20-30 minutes so you don’t burn the potatoes. 
 
 *The recipe is so huge that I always fill more than one 9×13 pan, which means an 8×8 or oval casserole dish goes into the freezer for an easy meal later...or we can invite other neighborhood zombies to come over for dinner. 
 


This is what the “pie” looks like in the dish. You can refrigerate it this way and just pop it in the oven: be sure to add about 10 minutes to the bake time if starting cold. 

Spooky Ghost Shepherd's Pie for Halloween 

My only regret? I should have made way more cute ghosties! We had plenty of extra mashed potatoes on the side. 

Treat your mini ghosts and ghouls to a Halloween trick, and treat yourself to ing your kids eat their vegetables without complaining. 

How else do you make Halloween special, but healthy too? 

For ideas on being special to the Earth (and teaching your kids the legacy of environmental stewardship), check out my article on 8 Ways to Have a Greener Halloween. I also received a sample of Elegant Minerals non-toxic, naturally colored Halloween makeup, and they’re so gorgeous! 

Disclosure: I am an affiliate of Amazon and earn commission through these links. See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity  

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Spaghetti Squash Lasagna {Low-Carb, Gluten-free, Grain-free} 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

101 
Ditch the pasta and try this grain free spaghetti squash lasagna. 

Our family discovered spaghetti squash, MUCH to my 7-year-old boy’s chagrin, when we first went grain-free two years ago. When cooked properly (i.e., not too mushy), it makes a pretty decent substitute for spaghetti. 

My husband, who doesn’t eat squash or any mushy orange vegetable of any kind, actually likes it – again, as long as it’s done up right. 


Your family members who won’t touch a squash with butter, salt, and pepper really might give it a chance with spaghetti sauce and cheese. It’s a totally different beast. 

Ditch the pasta and try this grain free spaghetti squash lasagna.If you have spaghetti squash in season in your region, grab a couple. A squash will stay fresh at room temperature for months: spaghetti squash is a little more tender and delicate, so I’d just give it weeks instead. 

But – they’re almost prohibitively expensive at 99c/lb. regular price throughout the year in our grocery stores. An average sized squash for 1-2 meals would come out to over $5, definitely more than the pasta it’s replacing! I like to get them at $1 each, and I’m hoping to buy an entire half bushel today. 

Pale yellow, oblong in shape, and totally nondescript, especially compared to other squash shapes this time of year. The flesh is pale yellow as well, and the photo below shows how the spaghetti squash comes out of the shell – it’s so cool! You just pull it out with a fork, and it creates strings that look just like pasta. I’m telling you, it’s wild. 


Spaghetti Squash Lasagna Recipe -- low carb, grain-free, kid-friendly, and super simple. Dinner never tasted so yummy. 

How to Cook Spaghetti Squash 
Try a simple spaghetti squash meal by baking the squash: 

Put whole in the oven while it warms up, about 10 minutes, to soften the hard outer shell (may not be necessary). Cut in half, scrape out seeds, and place facedown in a centimeter of water in a baking dish. Bake 30-45 minutes at 350-400F until a fork can easily pierce the skin. Try not to overbake or you’ll start to lose some of the “noodle” definition and get “mush.” 

Then simply top with hot spaghetti sauce with meat, just as you would pasta. 

You can also serve it as a simple side dish with butter, salt and pepper, or add some Italian herbs and a can of diced tomatoes. 

Ditch the pasta and try this grain free spaghetti squash lasagna.It’s possible to freeze the cooked spaghetti squash, too – I’ll be doing that more this fall than last. Shoot for “al dente” since you’ll be cooking it again to reheat for sure. 


If you’re wondering whether yours is done enough, if it’s pliable, it’s done. I like it best a teeny tiny bit al dente, and it’s really not a nice experience if it’s mushy. Trust me. 

Seeds Too! 
I love this additional element that gives you basically a free snack that’s totally healthy. The seeds in a spaghetti squash act just like pumpkin seeds when roasted, so save them and bake them up for munching! Here are my instructions on how to make crispy pumpkin seeds (soaked, Nourishing Traditions style). 

If you really want a squash-hater to love your spaghetti squash, try this delicious, nutritious, low-carb lasagna recipe. 

5.0 from 2 reviews  
Spaghetti Squash Lasagna {Grain-free} 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 4-6 
Ingredients 
½ lb. ground beef 
2 medium onions, diced 
1 green pepper or 1 red pepper or both, diced 
4 cloves garlic, crushed 
1-3 c. jar spaghetti sauce 
4-6 c. cooked spaghetti squash (1 large) 
½ tsp. salt 
¼ tsp. pepper 
1½ c. ricotta cheese 
1½ c. shredded mozzarella, divided 
¼-1/2 c. Parmesan 
Instructions 
Bake spaghetti squash by cutting in half, scooping out the seeds, and laying face down in a baking dish with about 1 centimeter of water in it. Bake at 350-400F for 30-45 minutes, until a fork can easily pierce the skin. You can make it easier to cut by putting the whole thing in the oven during the preheat, about 10 minutes. 
This step can be done anytime before the meal: use the squash chilled if cooked the day before (save energy and bake it with dinner), or bake it right in the lasagna pan to save a dish. 
To assemble the lasagna, put a few spoonfuls of spaghetti sauce in the bottom of a 9x13” pan. 
In a large pot, brown beef: add onions and peppers, cook until limp. Browning the onions adds an incredible layer of flavor to the entire dish. Add garlic for last 2 minutes.
Mix in spaghetti sauce. 
Meanwhile in a bowl, mix the squash with the salt, pepper, ricotta cheese and 1 c. of the mozzarella. 
Layer in pan with half the squash mixture, half the beef mixture, the remaining squash and the remaining beef. Top with ½ cup mozzarella (at least) and all the Parmesan. 
Bake at 375 for 25-30 minutes until bubbly around the edges. 
Notes 
* If you have a meat loving family, use a whole pound of ground beef. 
* Ground sausage would be great, too! 
* Could also probably fill in a cup or two of the spaghetti squash with shredded zucchini. 
* Got too many tomatoes? Sliced toms under the top layer of cheese is a magnificent addition. 
* Cottage cheese is a good sub for half the ricotta: makes it a little lighter feeling in my opinion. 
* Could yogurt cheese be used for part or all of the ricotta? I haven't tried it, and it wouldn't really be melty, but that's what the mozzarella is for anyway, right? 
* You could always add other vegetables, like greens, to this dish, and fresh herbs would be wonderful. 
* The bigger version: use 6-8 c. squash, a whole pound of beef, 2+ c. each of the cheeses and 2 jars sauce. It still fits in a 9x13, but just barely! 
Yum 
Ditch the pasta and try this grain free spaghetti squash lasagna. 


Enjoy the recipe! 

Other fall squash recipes: 

Roasted winter vegetables 
Savory Greek Sausage Stuffed Squash 
Monday Mission: Try Some Squash 
Grain-free Pumpkin Pancakes (or squash) 
Katie here – gluten-free can be confusing but it doesn’t have to be hard! I’m thrilled to share a FREE gluten-free cheat sheet mini eBook to help get you started! 
This is perfect if you’ve just been told you need a GF diet, if you have a friend or family member eating GF and you’d like to cook for them, or if you’re just curious what it’s all about! 
Free gluten-free guide for rookies 
YES! I WANT THE FREE GF CHEAT SHEET! 
See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest101 


START RECIPE


Tomato Basil Einkorn Pasta with Greens Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Have you tried Einkorn pasta? Made with ancient grains this hearty pasta topped with a tomato basil sauce is a perfect meal any night of the week.Inspired by the deep red of the jarred tomatoes from Jovial Foods and their boast on the label of the “perfect tomato,” I decided to let them be the center of attention in the Einkorn pasta recipe I set out to make. Einkorn recipe - tomato basil pasta with greens 

I was going to shoot for this recipe with sausage and greens at first, but when fresh basil showed up in our CSA share, I thought I’d do more of this tomato basil recipe to shine the spotlight on the tomatoes. 


Of course, the CSA greens that get thrown into literally everything I make brought the dish back toward the first recipe, but without the sausage. 

I wasn’t sure I’d get enough flavor in the tomatoes since I prefer fresh tomatoes for a dish like this when possible, but I think they may have started with quite a bit of flavor from the field itself.Have you tried Einkorn pasta? Made with ancient grains this hearty pasta topped with a tomato basil sauce is a perfect meal any night of the week. 

The tomatoes are so thick and red through the jar, it almost looks like tomato paste with some diced tomatoes thrown in. 

This recipe is sponsored by Jovial Foods. Have you tried Einkorn pasta? Made with ancient grains this hearty pasta topped with a tomato basil sauce is a perfect meal any night of the week 

5.0 from 1 reviews 
Tomato Basil Einkorn Pasta with Greens 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
15 mins 
Total time 
20 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
8 oz. Einkorn spaghetti or other pasta 
2 Tbs. EVOO 
3 cloves garlic, crushed (garlic scapes, optional) 
1-18.3 oz. jar Jovial Foods organic diced tomatoes 
3-4 leaves kale or swiss chard, chopped finely 
⅓ c. chopped fresh basil 
2 oz. white cheese, grated (or cut in chunks) 
Instructions 
Cook pasta to package directions and drain. 
Heat a medium-large pot and add oil, then garlic, sauteing for a minute over medium heat. (Note: Don't use cast iron with tomato dishes) 
Pour in the tomatoes and greens, stir, and heat over medium high with a lid on the pot. 
Once the greens are wilted, add the fresh basil and cheese just long enough for the cheese to begin to melt, about 2 minutes. 
Add the drained pasta and stir to coat. 
Serve warm or cold as a pasta salad. 
Notes 
This dish would certainly work well with any pasta, from whole wheat to gluten-free, in any shape. 
Feel free to substitute 2 whole fresh tomatoes for the jar of diced. 
Add a half pound cooked hot or sweet bulk sausage to make it a meal! 
To complete the meal, I floated a steamer bet of vegetables for a side dish, right on top of the spaghetti water while it was cooking. 


How is the Einkorn Pasta? 
Have you tried Einkorn pasta? Made with ancient grains this hearty pasta topped with a tomato basil sauce is a perfect meal any night of the week.I’m guessing that most people trying einkorn pasta, available for purchase here, here, or here, will either have a discerning palate and appreciate the layers of flavor, or NOT be discerning and not notice any difference from wheat pasta. 

My husband is in the latter group. He enjoyed the pasta but couldn’t explicate any difference from other wheat pasta that he’s had. 

I thought the einkorn added a certain smooth nuttiness, but really well suited to pasta. It cooked easily, held up well, and was, in my opinion, quite delicious – better than the average. In fact, I’ve since ordered more (penne this time) from Tropical Traditions. 

Why Einkorn? 
Have you tried Einkorn pasta? Made with ancient grains this hearty pasta topped with a tomato basil sauce is a perfect meal any night of the week.Einkorn is wheat and contains gluten, but it’s the oldest form of wheat we can find. 

It is so different from modern varieties of wheat, in fact, that it only has two sets of chromosomes while modern wheat has six. 

Einkorn, also called farro, was first likely hybridized into emmer, with four sets of chromosomes, and then spelt, a precursor to modern wheat, with six sets of chromosomes. 

Einkorn is lower in gluten and harder to grow, as it needs more space between rows than modern wheat, which has been hybridized for efficiency, among other convenient factors. 


Einkorn is also much more packed with  than other wheat, partly because there are fewer plants taking minerals and goodness out of the same amount of soil. Here is what the pasta boasts: 

High in Thiamin, essential dietary and trace minerals 
Good source of protein, dietary fiber and B Vitamins. 
One 2oz. serving contains as much of the antioxidant Lutein as a whole egg. 
Oxygen Radical Absorbance Capacity (ORAC) twice that of whole durum wheat pasta. 
Personally, I’m just in love with the fact that this is ancient, lovingly grown, and that the company has such wholesome intentions – they work with small farmers and aren’t afraid to plant less so that their food is healthier. 

The fact that the pasta is really yummy and packed with protein, lutein and B vitamins is a bonus.Have you tried Einkorn pasta? Made with ancient grains this hearty pasta topped with a tomato basil sauce is a perfect meal any night of the week. 

I’ve made three other einkorn recipes so far and really enjoyed them all: 

einkorn brownies (with sucanat) 
einkorn chocolate chip cookies (with sucanat as well) 
einkorn pizza recipe (with freshly ground flour) 
Have you ever tried einkorn? 

Disclosure: Jovial Foods sent product for my review and sponsored this recipe post. I am an affiliate of Amazon.com and earn gift certificates for first time purchasers from Tropical Traditions. See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Savory Greek Sausage Stuffed Autumn Squash 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

This savory Greek sausage stuffed acorn squash is perfect for a weeknight meal or fancy enough for entertaining guests. 

I was thinking about a sausage-stuffed squash recipe for a few weeks. 

Twitter wouldn’t cough one up for me, and I never got around to a good Google search (or Swagbucks search, actually), so finally I just decided to make one up. 

It’s rare that I start from square one on a recipe: usually my good stuff starts with someone else’s idea that I simply adapt or use as a framework at the very least. 


This particular recipe, however, is all mine. It’s in the small category including this one and this one, and this slow cooker recipe I’d almost forgotten about. (Coincidentally, the first two include vegetables that are easy to find in the fall…) 

Remembering an old Kraft recipe with acorn squash, balsamic vinaigrette dressing, maple syrup and bacon, I embarked on what I knew should be a “real” recipe. 

The initial aromas boded well: Rachel Ray said on her show recently that anything starting with sausage, peppers, onions and garlic in a sauté has to be good, so I was reassured that I probably wouldn’t fail since my squash dinner was starting out that way exactly. 

She’s right. 

I’m proud of this little autumn gem, and I hope you agree that it’s a winner! 

This savory Greek sausage stuffed acorn squash is perfect for a weeknight meal or fancy enough for entertaining guests. 

FAQs 
If using ½ pound sausage, what can I  do with the rest? Save it in the fridge or freezer for awesome morning scrambled eggs (include the other halves of the bell peppers, too), super spaghetti with jarred sauce, or sausage bean and kale soup or this casserole. 
If using 3 squash, just pump up the insides – a full pound of meat, whole peppers, etc. 
My cheese is frozen. What do I do? Just leave the heat on under the pan for a minute or so, stirring constantly, until the cheese is melted. 
Can I use kale or other leafy greens? Yes! At least, yes to kale. Others would probably be fine. 
I have extra “stuffing” – what can I do with it? My husband put it on spaghetti squash with red sauce because he doesn’t like mushy squashes (sigh), and readers tell me it’s excellent in scrambled eggs or on English muffin pizzas, too. Yum! 
This savory Greek sausage stuffed acorn squash is perfect for a weeknight meal or fancy enough for entertaining guests. 


Print This Recipe 
Savory Greek Sausage Stuffed Autumn Squash 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 4-6 
Ingredients 
2-3 acorn and/or carnival squash 
½-1 lb. sausage (we prefer spicy) 
1 onion, chopped 
½ green pepper, chopped 
½ red pepper, chopped 
2 large tomatoes, diced OR 1 15-oz. can diced tomatoes, drained 
1-2 c. spinach (or more) 
4 cloves garlic, pressed 
¼ tsp. pepper 
sprinkle of salt 
1 Tbs. balsamic vinegar 
1 c. shredded mozzarella cheese 
¼ c. Parmesan cheese 
2-4 Tbs. butter 
1 Tbs. feta cheese 

Instructions 
Wash, cut, and seed the squash. 
Place face down in a 9×13” glass dish with some water at the bottom. 
Bake at 400F for 20-30 minutes until skin is easily pierced with a knife and flesh is soft. 
Brown sausage in a very large pan or shallow pot. 
Drain grease if necessary. 
Press garlic and set aside. 
Add onion and peppers and saute until well cooked, about 5-8 minutes. 
Add tomatoes and cook a few minutes: season with salt and pepper. Add spinach and garlic together, stir and cook 2 minutes or until greens are wilted. 
Remove pan from heat. 
Stir in vinegar, mozzarella and Parmesan cheeses until melted. 
Turn the squash over but leave them in the glass dish. 
Place ½-1 Tbs. butter and some salt and pepper in each squash. 
Stuff squash with the sausage and cheese mixture, then top with feta. 
(optional) Broil a few minutes to very lightly toast the feta. 
Serve hot in the shell. 
Serves 4-6. 
Notes 
FAQs 
If using ½ pound sausage, what can I do with the rest? Save it in the fridge or freezer for awesome morning scrambled eggs (include the other halves of the bell peppers, too), super spaghetti with jarred sauce, or sausage bean and kale soup or this casserole. 

If using 3 squash, just pump up the insides – a full pound of meat, whole peppers, etc. 

My cheese is frozen. What do I do? Just leave the heat on under the pan for a minute or so, stirring constantly, until the cheese is melted. 

Can I use kale or other leafy greens? Yes! At least, yes to kale. Others would probably be fine. 

I have extra “stuffing” – what can I do with it? My husband put it on spaghetti squash with red sauce because he doesn’t like mushy squashes (sigh), and readers tell me it’s excellent in scrambled eggs or on English muffin pizzas, too. Yum! 

What are you doing with squash this fall? 

This savory Greek sausage stuffed acorn squash is perfect for a weeknight meal or fancy enough for entertaining guests. 


FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Veggie-Laden Shepherd’s Pie Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

You don't have to be Irish to enjoy this Shepherd's pie! It's packed with veggies and tastes great year round.“Shepherd me, O Pie…” Sing it with me? 

I’m not much for corned beef and wilted cabbage in a heap on a plate, but bring on St. Patty’s Day so I have an excuse to make my Shepherd’s Pie recipe! 

I’d make this dish any time of year, to be honest, but when red potatoes go on sale in honor of the Irish this month, it always reminds me of one of my family’s never-fail meals, which I ed using a Kraft Food & Family recipe and one from Rachel Ray. Put them together, stir, and you get a load of vegetable goodness, some nourishing chicken stock, and the creamiest most flavorful smashed potatoes I’ve ever met. 


Veggie-Laden Shepherd's Pie 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: Serves: many! 8-10 people perhaps? 
Ingredients 
2½ lbs. red potatoes, chunked 
3 cloves crushed garlic (or ½ tsp. garlic powder), divided 
4-6 slices bacon, optional but yummy 
1 lb. ground beef or turkey 
(note: a great chance to sneak in liver or heart…) 
1½ tsp. paprika 
1½ tsp. cumin 
1 tsp. ground thyme 
freshly ground pepper 
1 medium onion, chopped 
2-4 carrots, diced 
2 celery ribs, diced 
½ red pepper, chopped 
1-2 c. chopped broccoli, including stems 
1 c. frozen peas 
4 Tbs. flour (or arrowroot starch) 
1 c. chicken or beef stock or broth 
1 c. plain yogurt, divided 
1 egg 
2 Tbs. butter 
¼ c. cottage cheese 
½-1 tsp. Real Salt, to taste (or other unrefined sea salt) 
½ c.+ shredded cheddar cheese, divided (sharp is best) 
Instructions 
Boil potatoes with a clove or two of crushed garlic and some sea salt and cook on medium-low until tender, about 15 minutes. 
Meanwhile, get busy in another medium-large pot. 
Cook the bacon, drain grease, chop bacon and set aside. 
In the same pot, brown the ground meat. 
Drain grease if necessary. (If you're low on time, you could have the bacon going in a frying pan next to the big pot to speed things up. Or better yet, maybe you are smart and have some already cooked bacon in your freezer!) 
Season meat with paprika, cumin, thyme, salt and pepper. 
Add onions, carrots, and celery. 
Cook about 5 minutes to soften veggies, then add red pepper, broccoli, peas, and remaining crushed garlic. 
Cook 2 minutes. 
Put the bacon back in. 
Stir in flour (or starch), and cook and stir 2 minutes (to get rid of the flour taste). 
Add broth and ½ c. yogurt and bring to a low simmer. 
Preheat the oven to 375F. 
When the potatoes are tender, stir a ladle of the cooking water into one beaten egg in a small bowl. 
Drain the potatoes. You can leave them in the pot a few minutes to dry out a bit if you’re still working on all those veggies in the other pot! 
Smash the potatoes with butter, ½ c. yogurt (or sour cream), salt, pepper, and cottage cheese plus ¼ c. of the shredded cheddar. 
Add the egg mixture and stir well.  
Pour the meat mixture into an oval or 9×13 casserole dish (usually both, this recipe tends to grow like the loaves and fishes!). 
Top with potatoes and sprinkle the remaining ¼ c. cheddar cheese on top. 
You’ll likely need extra if you divided the meal into two pans. 
Bake 20 minutes until bubbly and the cheese is melted. 
Notes 
This recipe freezes great once in the pan.  

To reheat a frozen casserole, thaw completely and bake at 350F 30-40 minutes until bubbly. You may want to leave the shredded cheese off before you freeze, then add it the last 10 minutes of baking. It's helpful to cover the casserole with an inverted cookie sheet for the first 20-30 minutes so you don't burn the potatoes. 

Everyone who’s ever tasted my Shepherd’s Pie loves it, except my poor friend who made a huge batch of it with me for freezer cooking day. Her family was not a fan, so I got the second meal’s worth when Leah was born! They must have something against cumin. And potatoes. 

Bring on the veggies. 
I’m always amazed at how many vegetables I can cram into a casserole dish. The balance of colors is beautiful, and that also means you’re getting a nice blend of nutrients. 


You don't have to be Irish to enjoy this Shepherd's pie! It's packed with veggies and tastes great year round. 

The seasonings are out of this world, and the creamy, cheesy smashed potatoes may not be your friend if you want low-carb, but your palate will thank you for indulging! I always secretly hope I overdid the potatoes so that there’s extra that won’t fit on the casserole and I have to eat them for lunch the next day. (Yes, I lick the spoon and potato masher with abandon.) 

The recipe is so huge that I always fill more than one 9×13 pan, which means an 8×8 or oval casserole dish goes into the freezer for an easy meal later. 

But the best thing about this meal? It comes with a song. My husband and I always bust out with a rendition of “Shepherd me O Pie, beyond my wants, beyond my fears, from death into liiiiiiiiife!” If you’re Catholic, you’ve probably heard the original at church before. Go on, just try making this meal without getting that one in your head! I dare ya. 

You don't have to be Irish to enjoy this Shepherd's pie! It's packed with veggies and tastes great year round.Are you ready for Lent? I actually decorate for Lent to make the whole house get into the season. Don’t forget to look up Mass times for tomorrow and get your ashes and dose of humility (You are dust!). 


Check it out! I’m the guest lecturer (or “star of the show,” whichever you prefer) at GNOWFGLINS eCourse today with my ultimate favorite real food technique: making homemade yogurt. If you’ve been scared to try it in the past, just  and see how totally easy it is. You can do this! I’m also getting in on the conference call this month (week of March 21st), so if you want the opportunity to  me anything about anything (yikes) in person, you can consider the premium membership for that opportunity! 


Disclosure: The mention of Real Salt is part of a paid advertising campaign…but you know what? It’s what I really use in my kitchen anyway. You can use whatever salt floats your boat, but unrefined sea salt is the healthiest. I work with GNOWFGLINS and do receive a portion of payments from my readers. See my full disclosure statement here. 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE

Sausage, Kale and Bean Soup Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

22 
I just can’t stop making soup, even when it’s ninety degrees outside. You may think of soup as purely a winter thing, but with all the fresh produce coming into my house (from the Farmer’s Market…remember, the organic gardening series were all guest posts!) I can’t help but make some of my favorites. 

Perfect for a fall or winter day, this nourishing soup comes together quickly and is both filling and satisfying. 

This soup is fantastic in the winter, too, and often gets made when spinach is abundantly on sale in the grocery store (spinach makes a great substitute for the kale). However, it’s the dipping sandwiches that make this soup really special, and any tomato found in a grocery store is less than subpar. It’s got to be a summer thing. 

I definitely advocate making your own easy chicken stock, but sometimes you just want something quick and easy for those busy days. Thrive Market will deliver some to your door – Pacific brand makes Chicken Bone Stock for a good price. You can even get 15% off your first order, no coupon required. No running to the store and you’ll be ready to make dinner at a moment’s notice. 

(For other ideas to include broth and/or beans in your summer fare check out this post:  Ways to Use Broth and Beans in the Summer) 

Find this recipe, updated and with even more frugal tips and transformation options, along with 29 other bean recipes and a ton of information on cooking dry beans, the health benefits of beans, and ideas for bean haters in The Everything Beans Book, available now at Kitchen Stewardship! 

Sausage, Kale and Bean Soup Recipe 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: soup, main 
Ingredients 
2 Tbs. Extra-virgin olive oil 
½ or 1 lb. bulk Italian sweet or hot sausage, or use homemade sausage seasoning and any ground meat 
1 medium onion, chopped 
2-3 carrots, chopped 
1 large potato, peeled and chopped 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
1 bay leaf 
2 cans white beans, drained and rinsed 
salt and pepper 
4 c. fresh kale (or other leafy green like spinach) 
2 quarts chicken broth or stock 
Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano or Romano, to pass at table 

Instructions 
Heat medium soup pot over medium-high heat (medium-low if using EVOO!). Add the oil and sausage and brown. 
Add veggies, bay leaf and beans. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Cook 5 minutes to soften veggies. 
Add greens and wilt. Add stock and cover. 
Raise heat and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes. Serve with grated cheese for topping. 
Notes 
Any ground meat can be transformed into homemade sausage with the right seasoning blend. Adjust spice to taste with cayenne. 

You can leave the peels on the potatoes for nutrients, especially if you have organic. 

Allow the crushed garlic to rest for 7 minutes before heating for optimal health benefits: don’t overcook. 

I always encourage dry beans when you can: see how to cook them. For this recipe, you can use anywhere from 3-5 cups of cooked white beans. I make the whole bag and simply store any leftovers in the freezer! 

Of course you’re going to use homemade chicken stock, without question, right? 

(Recipe by Rachael Ray) 


sausage beans and kale soup (1)Perfect for a fall or winter day, this nourishing soup comes together quickly and is both filling and satisfying. 

The Dipper 
See that dip? It’s truly the sandwich that takes a good soup up to “great.” Layer sliced tomato, mozzarella cheese, and fresh basil (or alternately, a spread of pesto) on a sandwich. Brush the outsides with EVOO, either heated gently with fresh crushed garlic in a frying pan first, or take the easy route and use EVOO and garlic powder. 

Grill like you would any grilled cheese OR on a George Foreman like this chicken wrap, and prepare to be amazed at what happens when grilled cheese grows up. It gets sophisticated. The way the flavors blend together with the soup is simply divine. Perfect for a fall or winter day, this nourishing soup comes together quickly and is both filling and satisfying. 


Have you seen my new eBook page? Click HERE to read new reviews of both books: Healthy Snacks to Go and the Family Camping Handbook. And be sure to check out the new Designed for Wellness eCourse, for busy moms to get their balance from food to sleep to stress! Lisa Byrne, holistic health counselor, dished an interview with me yesterday. 

Winter Soup eBookLooking for more soup recipes? You won’t want to miss the eBook Winter Soups, a compilation from over 50 real food bloggers. I truly enjoy having this book in my collection for all the great new ideas. Check it out here. 

What to do with the rest of the sausage: 

Sausage Spinach Pasta Toss 
Sausage Zucchini Bake 
Other Summer Soup Recipes: 

Cream of Vegetable Soup 
Garlic Soup 
Katie’s Simple Cabbage Soup with Secret Super Food 
This post contains affiliate links to Thrive Market from which I will earn a commission if you make a purchase. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest22 


START RECIPE


Mexican Stuffed Peppers Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

102 
Make Mexican stuffed peppers a family staple. Simple and kid friendly. 

Are you tempted by the lovely bet of peppers at the Farmer’s Market but not quite sure how to deal with so many all at once? 

Since most recipes seem to call for one pepper at a time, you either have to preserve the peppers by freezing or dehydrating, or find a great stuffed pepper recipe. If your family likes Mexican food, this lower carb, grain-free twist on taco night will send you to the Farmer’s Market in a hurry! 


Find this recipe, updated and with even more frugal tips and transformation options, along with 29 other bean recipes and a ton of information on cooking dry beans, the health benefits of beans, and ideas for bean haters in The Everything Beans Book, available now at Kitchen Stewardship! 
Make Mexican stuffed peppers a family staple. Simple and kid friendly. 
Mexican Stuffed Peppers 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Ingredients 
3-5 bell peppers, green or colored, halved, seeds removed 
½ lb. ground beef (or a full pound) 
1 Tbs. taco seasoning (or follow package directions for ½ pound beef) 
1½ c. frozen corn (optional) 
2 c. black beans (prepared from dried or about 1 can) 
1 16 oz. jar salsa 
¼ c. diced red onion 
(optional) other vegetables: diced red pepper, zucchini, leafy greens, etc…anything you have on hand to enhance the mixture 
(optional) extra kidney beans or lentils to fill in for the missing ½ lb. ground beef 
(optional) up to 1 c. shredded cheddar or Mexican blend cheese 

Instructions 
Brown meat and add taco seasoning, following directions on packet or with seasoning recipe to make basic taco meat. 
If using a half pound ground beef, you might brown a whole pound and freeze the other half for an easy pasta meal the next week. 
Consider adding cooked lentils or kidney beans at this point and double the taco seasoning accordingly. 
Add all the other ingredients except the cheese and heat through on the stovetop. 
Be creative with the vegetables you have on hand: it’s hard to go wrong with a whole jar of salsa and some taco seasoning already in the mix! 
Meanwhile, use a steamer bet to steam the halved peppers for 5-10 minutes until somewhat softened but not cooked to death. 
Arrange in an oval or 9×13 casserole dish and “stuff” the filling into each pepper generously. 
This filling is a bit like the loaves and fishes: everything is suddenly full and there’s still more left !
I often end up with more filling than I need, which becomes great taco-style leftovers or freezes well for a future meal. 
After filling, top the peppers with shredded cheese and broil or bake at 350F for 5-10 minutes to brown the cheese. 
Notes 
You can skip the steaming peppers step and simply fill the raw peppers, adding a little water around them in the casserole dish to soften them up while it bakes, but you’ll have to bake 30 minutes, covered, before removing the cover for 5-10 minutes to brown the cheese. You can also freeze raw peppers, simply halved, and then they’re ready for the next stuffed pepper meal, especially if you freeze a jar of leftover filling! 

Make Mexican stuffed peppers a family staple. Simple and kid friendly 


The day I took this photo, I used only a half pound ground beef but added some beef heart, half an ear of corn that was leftover in the fridge, regular white onions instead of red, and orange peppers. I also threw in a can of kidney beans. Often some spinach sneaks in, and it’s really quite alright without any corn for a lower carb option. This is nothing if not a versatile meal! 

The original recipe called for a cup of cooked brown rice, but I’ve taken that out to make it a very diabetes-friendly meal for when my mother-in-law visits. The beans could decrease and the meat increase if you’re very serious about low carb: I’m more serious about my food budget, so I go the opposite way with meat and beans. 

Make Mexican stuffed peppers a family staple. Simple and kid friendlyPepper notes: Red and green peppers are classic stuffed pepper options, but if you like a little heat, try this recipe with fresh poblanos (amazing!), and if you like a little fanciness, make roasted red peppers and then stuff those. Remember, you can always freeze the peppers cut in half (even roasted) and ready for the filling so that you can capture the essence of fresh summer produce any time of year! 


Serve with: 

Mexican Beans and Rice 
Homemade Refried Beans 
Homemade Guacamole 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest102 


START RECIPE

Mexican Style Black Bean Burger Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Mexican Black Bean Burger Recipe - a meatless burger recipe with lots of Mexican spices. Black beans, lentils, jalapenos - your tongue will be in Heaven! 

Photos courtesy of Aimee Wimbush-Bourque from Simple Bites. 
Tis the season to be grilling! 

I’m faking you out. These “burgers” aren’t grilled at all. In fact, they’re a meatless meal (but do they *almost* look like real, grilled burgers?). I’ve tried a handful of meatless veggie burger recipes over the years, and most of them end up being rejected or at least smushed into a tortilla and deemed “tasty, but not a burger,” like this favorite chickpea wrap. 

A bit of Mexican flare and lots of bread crumbs resurrected these bean burgers from the certain demise of just being “refried beans”. (How to make frugal homemade breadcrumbs.) They were too spicy for my kids, but that’s easily remedied. We adults loved them, and this recipe is a definite “do over.” (That is, we’d eat them again, no problem.) 

Find this recipe, updated and with even more frugal tips and transformation options, along with 29 other bean recipes and a ton of information on cooking dry beans, the health benefits of beans, and ideas for bean haters in The Everything Beans Book, available now at Kitchen Stewardship! 

Mexican Black Bean Burger Recipe - a meatless burger recipe with lots of Mexican spices. Black beans, lentils, jalapenos - your tongue will be in Heaven! 
5.0 from 1 reviews 
Black Bean Burgers (Mexican Style) 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Meatless Entrees 
Ingredients 
2 c. cooked black beans 
1½ c. cooked lentils 
½ small onion 
½ red pepper 
3 garlic cloves 
2 jalapenos or 2-3 tsp. cayenne (to taste!) 
¼ c. cilantro (or 2 tsp. dry) 
1½ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. pepper 
2 beaten eggs 
1+ c. bread crumbs 
Instructions 
Allow legumes to cool if you just cooked them. 
Whiz them in a food processor along with vegetables and cilantro. 
When mostly smooth, add salt and pepper, eggs and a cup of bread crumbs, then more bread crumbs bit by bit until a firm consistency is reached.
Roll into balls slightly larger than a golf ball, then flatten with the heel of your hand into patties. 
Cook in a greased skillet (preferably cast iron) about 5-8 minutes, turning at least once to keep even doneness. 
Notes 
This is too spicy for kids. 
Adapted from True Adventures in Money Hacking 

Mexican Black Bean Burger Recipe - a meatless burger recipe with lots of Mexican spices. Black beans, lentils, jalapenos - your tongue will be in Heaven! 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Southwestern Pot Pie 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Meatless Southwestern Pot Pie Recipe. Garbanzo beans (chickpeas), sweet potatoes, salsa and cornbread mix to make a unique one-pot meatless main dish. Perfect for an easy dinner. 

A hint of autumn sweetness, the heartiness of beans with the sophistication of garbanzos, a little salsa heat…and then cornbread!  The flavors in Southwestern Pot Pie seem surprisingly off the wall, but once they’re all working together, it’s a distinctive dish that will keep you coming back for more. 

Meatless, frugal, and packed with vitamins – I’ve been trying to share this recipe and its unique preparation method with you since mid-Lent, and it kept getting pushed down the list.  You also can make it gluten-free by using a cornbread recipe with 100% cornmeal and no wheat flour. 


Meatless Southwestern Pot Pie Recipe. Garbanzo beans (chickpeas), sweet potatoes, salsa and cornbread mix to make a unique one-pot meatless main dish. Perfect for an easy dinner. 

Find this recipe, updated and with even more frugal tips and transformation options, along with 29 other bean recipes and a ton of information on cooking dry beans, the health benefits of beans, and ideas for bean haters in The Everything Beans Book! 

Southwestern Pot Pie 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Ingredients 
1 Tbs. oil 
1 large onion chopped (1 cup) 
2 c. cubed sweet potatoes, peeled but raw 
1 jar 16 oz. salsa (2 cups) 
½ c. water 
¼ tsp. ground cinnamon 
1 small can corn or a cup of frozen corn 
1 can (15-16 oz.) garbanzo beans-drained, or 2 cups cooked beans 
Follow directions to make a half batch of soaked cornbread. 
Instructions 
Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a 4 quart Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 
Cook onion in oil about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until crisp-tender. 
Stir in sweet potatoes, salsa, water and cinnamon. 
Heat to boiling: reduce heat. 
Cover and simmer 20-25 minutes or until sweet potatoes are tender. 
Stir in corn and beans. 
Make a half batch of cornbread. Drop by large spoonfuls onto vegetable mixture. 
The original recipe said: Cover and simmer about 15 minutes more or until toothpick inserted into center of dumplings comes out clean. I decided to turn my oven on to 400 degrees and bake the whole pot for 15-20 minutes, and it was much more effective. 
Notes 
Serves 5-6 
Cost: $3-4.00 
Thanks to my Aunt Karen and cousin Ashley for sharing their recipe. 

I had a hard time getting all the cornbread done on the stovetop alone, but I also made a full batch, which filled the pot more than “spoonfuls.”  Luckily, even cooking on the stovetop for the recommended time PLUS in the oven for 15 minutes didn’t burn the bottom part, so it’s hard to completely make this dish a disaster. 


 

I was so tempted to add garlic to this recipe, and if I had fresh spinach on hand, I’m sure some would have snuck into the pot, but I was trying to make a dish without altering the very first time.  Perhaps I’d try adding an entire box of frozen spinach next time: greens are such a good match with white beans. 

If you want to cook up a pound or two of dry chickpeas all at once, here are some other recipes using chickepeas/garbanzo beans to round out your meal plan: chickpea wraps, turkey chili (Recipe available in The Everything Beans Book), cabbage soup variation, and put on cold lettuce salads or a Greek pasta salad. 

Meatless Southwestern Pot Pie Recipe. Garbanzo beans (chickpeas), sweet potatoes, salsa and cornbread mix to make a unique one-pot meatless main dish. Perfect for an easy dinner. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Hearty Lentil Stew Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Whether you're a vegetarian, looking to stretch your food budget or are giving up meat for a short time, this slow cooker lentil stew will satisfy everyone in the family. 

For the past few years, I’ve made this simple, yet nourishing dish for Ash Wednesday, then frozen the rest for Good Friday’s meal. With cheese melted on top, it’s delicious and delightfully frugal: without cheese, it’s positively penitential and even more frugal. More on why Catholics choose to sacrifice as part of our Lenten devotion coming this week. 

Find this recipe, updated and with even more frugal tips and transformation options, along with 29 other bean recipes and a ton of information on cooking dry beans, the health benefits of beans, and ideas for bean haters in The Everything Beans Book, available now at Kitchen Stewardship! 


A perfect simple, meatless meal for Lent or as an everyday easy dinner. Soaked legumes, whole grains, and little twist of ACV and soy sauce make this not your average vegetarian fare
Hearty Lentil Stew 
 

Print 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
90 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 40 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Main Course 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
1 chopped onion 
2 stalks celery, sliced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 chopped green pepper (in my freezer) 
6 c. water 
1 c. barley 
1 c. dry lentils 
1 carrot, shredded 
2 c. tomato sauce 
2 Tbsp. apple cider vinegar 
2 Tbsp. soy sauce 
1 tsp. basil 
½ tsp. marjoram 
salt and pepper 
Instructions 
Sauté onion, celery, garlic, and green pepper in a large pot with a small amount of water or oil until softened. 
Add 6 cups water, barley, and lentils. 
Bring to a boil and reduce heat to low. 
Stir, cover and cook 30 minutes. 
Add all the remaining ingredients, stir, cover and cook 30 minutes. 
Notes 
You can also crock pot this. Serve over potatoes or brown rice. 


A perfect simple, meatless meal for Lent or as an everyday easy dinner. Soaked legumes, whole grains, and little twist of ACV and soy sauce make this not your average vegetarian fare 

Seriously. You can’t get much simpler than those directions! It’s the perfect meal for a day when you don’t want to spend a lot of time in the kitchen or if you want something simple and basic. It makes plenty for two meals for a family of four and freezes great. 

A perfect simple, meatless meal for Lent or as an everyday easy dinner. Soaked legumes, whole grains, and little twist of ACV and soy sauce make this not your average vegetarian fareOver potatoes is my favorite… 


Want to “soak” it? Easy peasy. Just let the lentils and barley soak overnight in warm water with a few Tbs of vinegar added. Drain and proceed with the recipe as written except you’ll probably want to delete a 1/2-1 cup or so of water because the rice and lentils will have soaked up some already. (Why soak grains?) The lentils in the photo above were sprouted for a day or two before making the recipe. 

Need more legumes? Check out my all-inclusive dry beans post. 

More Meatless Meals: 

Chickpea Wraps 
Cream of Potato/Vegetable Soup 
Katie’s Simple Cabbage soup with Secret Super Food 
A perfect simple, meatless meal for Lent or as an everyday easy dinner. Soaked legumes, whole grains, and little twist of ACV and soy sauce make this not your average vegetarian fareA perfect simple, meatless meal for Lent or as an everyday easy dinner. Soaked legumes, whole grains, and little twist of ACV and soy sauce make this not your average vegetarian fare 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Homemade Whole Grain Sourdough Pizza Dough Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

20 
Everybody loves pizza! Add  to your pizza night with this easy, homemade whole grain sourdough pizza crust. 

I’m glad you’re here to learn more about how to use your beautiful sourdough starter! 

We’re sticking with sourdough recipes that don’t need as much rise for now, in case you’re still nurturing your baby sourdough starter and waiting for the bubbles you really want to see, like this:Everybody loves pizza! Add  to your pizza night with this easy, homemade whole grain sourdough pizza crust. 


Look at the beautiful air pockets right through the side of the jar!  This starter is ready to leaven some bread! 

Pizza Night Done Right! 
I am totally planning sourdough pizza for next week after checking out some options for this post.  Lots of drool all over my keyboard here.  I haven’t tried sourdough pizza dough yet, but Sarah Wood has, and she shares her recipe: 

Soaked sourdough pizza crust 
 

Print 
Author: Sarah <em>Adapted from </em><em>Mike Avery’s recipe</em> 
Ingredients 
1.5 C sourdough starter 
2 T olive oil 
¾ t salt 
1 – 1.5 C whole wheat flour 
Equipment: 
Stand mixer or mixing bowl 
Baking sheet and a Silpat type non-stick baking mat OR baking stone 
Rolling Pin 
Plastic Wrap 
Instructions 
Mix the ingredients together, working in flour until you have a soft dough. If it gets too dry add more starter or water. 
Once kneaded for about 5 minutes, cover and let rest for 30-60 minutes. 
After resting, roll out the dough on your Silpat or baking stone. I then transfer the Silpat with the dough onto the baking sheet. Cover with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out and leave at room temperature for at least seven hours. The crust will rise some as it soaks. (You can also bake right away without the extra “soak” time.) 
(I make this recipe into one oblong pizza crust that fits on my Silpat in a jelly roll baking pan. Divide the dough as you desire to suit the baking equipment you have on hand.) And Katie is in love with her baking stone, always, for pizza! 
Seven or more hours later, heat the oven to 450 degrees F. Bake the crust for 5 minutes. Then add sauce and desired toppings to pizza. Put pizza back in oven for about 10 minutes or until the cheese is bubbly and starting to brown. And check out Sarah’s baking instructions for the way Katie likes her pizza nowadays. 
Notes 
* Save your plastic wrap and reuse it every time you make pizza dough. I’ve been using the same piece of plastic wrap for months! 



* You can also freeze the pizza crusts after they have been par-baked and save them for future use. 



* Remember that you can always put your sourdough starter in the refrigerator if you’re not baking often: just feed it once a week. 

(Katie back: thanks, Sarah!) Refrigerating the starter gives you more timing choices. That way you won’t end up with a ton of starter taking over your house. On the other hand, if you are encouraged to make this awesome pizza because you have too much starter, maybe it’s better to let it take over a bit! 

I found a few other tempting pizza dough recipes in my forays through the blogosphere lately.  I have no idea which one to try first! 

King Arthur Flour never seems to fail me with great products and recipes.  Here is their sourdough pizza recipe. 
Pam at Adventures in Homemaking wrote recently of trying my friend Sarah (no longer available)’s sourdough pizza (no longer available): “This was by far one of the best pizzas I’ve ever put in my mouth.  Remember the scene from “What About Bob?” when he was eating dinner with his therapist’s family?  That’s kind of what we felt like eating this pizza.” It’s fun to hear others acknowledge Sarah’s mastery of sourdough! 
No one seems to remember to take a photo of their pizzas, though – they must be so tasty they just get eaten! 

Everybody loves pizza! Add  to your pizza night with this easy, homemade whole grain sourdough pizza crust. 
Sarah Wood has one more “discarded starter” guest post recipe for you tomorrow – muffins – and then (drum roll, please!) it’s bread time on Friday! 

Did you see Nina Planck here yesterday? 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest20 


START RECIPE


Pepper Steak Recipe (a Real Food Rendition of Hubby’s Favorite Meal) 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

20 
“I don’t think I can use onion soup mix anymore,” I said, and his world came crashing down around him. “You’re going to mess with Pepper Steak!?!?” he cried. 

Pepper Steak Recipe - A recipe makeover of a old family favorite - simple gluten-free dinner tonight and husband-approved! 

This is the recipe I emailed my mother-in-law for during our first months of marriage. I definitely wooed my man through his stomach and loved every second of surprising him with his favorite meal in the world. I had already hurt his feelings gustatorially by switching the white rice to brown a few years ago. Now I was going to experiment with the recipe that worked so well. He was justifiably skeptical. 


I nearly used the box, just to preserve the peace in the home. Reading the ingredients, though, I just couldn’t: 

onions, salt, cornstarch, sugar, caramel (color), corn syrup solids, yeast extract, natural flavor. 

For two reasons, I decided to strike out on my own: half the ingredients were not even close to real food, and the other half were so stinking simple I couldn’t believe that I couldn’t replicate it!Pepper Steak Recipe - A recipe makeover of a old family favorite - simple gluten-free dinner tonight and husband-approved! 

If you’ve read my story, you know part of the craziness that happened within my own head and in my home as I learned more and began to make changes in our diets. Luckily, this one has a happy ending. 

Better Than a BoxEvery real food cook needs some basic resources that everyone recognizes, just like this one. If you have a desire to cook real food more fluently or gain confidence in remaking some of your own processed style recipes using only whole foods, you’ll love the bestselling eBook Better Than a Box. With 60 ready-to-go recipes and 100 pages of kitchen tutorials, your family will be singing your real food praises in no time. Click HERE for more info on the premium package, including the Kindle version. 
Successful Real Food Rendition of Mom Kimball’s Pepper Steak 
My mother-in-law’s recipe is simple and anecdotal. She made it up using a few different recipes: cut round steak into strips, brown in pressure cooker, cover with water and cook 35 minutes. Add dry onion soup mix , simmer, thicken with corn starch and cold water, then add strips of green pepper. Serve over rice. I documented my adjustments and fleshed out the ingredients so I get consistent results. wlEmoticon-winkingsmile.pngPepper Steak Recipe - A recipe makeover of a old family favorite - simple gluten-free dinner tonight and husband-approved! 


Print This Recipe 
5.0 from 1 reviews 
Pepper Steak Over Rice 
 

Print 
Cook time 
120 mins 
Total time 
2 hours 
 
Real Food Rendition of Mom Kimball’s Pepper Steak 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Ingredients 
1-2 lbs. round steak, grassfed is best 
2-3 onions 
1-2 Tbs. molasses 
1 tsp. salt 
½ tsp. pepper 
2+ Tbs. cornstarch or arrowroot starch 
green pepper, cut into strips 
optional: tomato 
Instructions 
Cut meat into strips and brown in a large pot with olive oil or butter. 
Cut 2 onions into thin slices and add to meat, sauteing until translucent. Pour 1-2 Tbs molasses in and add salt and pepper. 
Cover with water, bring to a boil and simmer 1.5-2 hours. 
When the meat is practically falling apart, add strips of pepper, last onion cut into chunks, and optional tomato. 
Bring to a low boil. 
Mix cornstarch with cold water and add to hot liquid, stirring constantly until thick. 
Serve over cooked brown rice. 
Notes 
* Note: Grassfed beef should be cooked over low heat when pan frying or grilling, but with this method, it doesn’t matter. Anything will be tender! 

* Timesaver: I keep a glass jar just for mixing cornstarch and water. I know it will close watertight, and I just rinse it out instead of washing it after use. 

* UPDATE: You can make this recipe in the Instant Pot too, super easy! (Details here) 


The Husband Review Board Says: 
It’s a keeper. (Phew!) This remains a very simple meal, and using real onion increases the  a whole bunch. It’s a classic reverse engineering (see guide here). 

Be sure to come back tomorrow to link up homemade salad dressing recipes! 

Other husband-friendly recipes: 

Cheeseburger Helper 
Wanna-Be Lasagna Skillet Pasta 
Carnival of Easy Skillet Meals 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest20 


START RECIPE


Recipe Connection: Wanna-be Lasagna Skillet Pasta 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

Lasagna is one of my husband’s top three favorite meals, the one I made for him when I was trying to impress him in college and again for a 3-month wedding anniversary dinner in our apartment.  It can be time-consuming and dishes heavy, though…and you know how I feel about dishes!  (Should I patent that phrase?  Seriously.) 

When I took a stab at making homemade mozzarella and ricotta last fall, I didn’t think I had enough ricotta for a full pan of lasagna, and this meal was the fabulous result of my experimentation.  You might notice that it was a real “What’s in the fridge” kind of meal made at the end of the growing season here in Michigan! 

wanna be lasagna 4 

Wanna-be Lasagna Skillet Pasta 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Dinners 
Ingredients 
1 lb. (or ½ lb.) ground beef 
2 small or 1 large onion, chopped 
1 sweet pepper (red, yellow or orange), diced 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
~8 Roma tomatoes or ~4 whole tomatoes or 1 15-oz. can of diced tomatoes 
1 zucchini, chopped (optional) 
spinach or kale leaves, washed and cut 
handful of fresh parsley 
handful of fresh basil 
½ handful fresh oregano 
(you could substitute a few tsp. dried parsley and basil and 1 tsp. dried oregano) 
1 c. ricotta cheese 
shredded mozzarella cheese to top 

Instructions 
Brown ground beef with onion and pepper. 
Add garlic for the last minute. 
Throw in everything else other than the cheeses and cook, covered, until vegetables are done. 
Dollop ricotta on the top (do not stir) and finish off with mozzarella. 
Cover again over very low heat (or none) until cheese is melted. 
Serve over cooked pasta, any style.  You could even use lasagna noodles broken up for authenticity or use the same recipe and roll them up! 


 
wanna be lasagna 

I’m sure this could be a one-skillet meal with the proper amount of water added to cook the pasta along with the tomatoes. My guess would be 2 cups water to a half pound of pasta if using canned tomatoes with juice or 2 ½ cups water if using real tomatoes, based on my last successful hamburger helper substitute. I just haven’t been brave enough to experiment again, although we did have this meal again. Wintertime meant that I used the dried spices, and it was (almost) as good as when I had Farmer’s Market bounty. 

Want to feed your hubby well?  See my treatise on How to Feed a Husband Real Food. 

This is my entry in today’s Carnival of “Meals that Hamburger Helper was TRYING to Imitate”. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Recipe Connection: Puerto Rican Chicken 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

When you’re having company, what do you serve?  Typically people fall into two camps:  the make-it-easy-and-tasty-so-I-can-hang-out-with-my-guests style of meal, and the wow-factor-on-the-plate “this-is-a-company-meal” dish. 



This recipe is a little bit of both.  There is some work involved, but it can be done blessedly well in advance of dinnertime if you wish.  Both the elegant look on the plate and the pizzazz on the palate are most definitely worth of a “company meal”. I miss this meal quite a bit since almost 100% of our chicken purchases are now whole chickens. 

I splurged (? – compromised?) in December and bought split chicken breasts from the store.  Visions of feces-matted caged chicken dancing in my head, I proceeded to debone and build the Puerto Rican Chicken meal I hadn’t had in over a year. 

Folks…this was worth it! 

The Step-by-Step Version: 
puerto rican chicken 6First, set your scene. I like to wash my hands once for all raw chicken activity.  Here is my baking dish, oil/vinegar mixture, spices (with spoons – important!), sliced cheese (I threw some cheddar in because I only had a little Monterey Jack left) and the bacon left over from breakfast (it pays to save 6 slices…).  This is one recipe where it’s not just for looks when your kitchen acts like the Food Network. 


puerto rican chicken 7Step one is to pound the chicken.  If you don’t have a fancy mallet like this, use a rolling pin, a heavy glass bottle or jar, or a regular old hammer (clean!).  I don’t like raw chicken spray, so I use wax paper on top, or if I’m really smart and eco-conscious, a waxed bag from cereal or crackers.  Bang away until you get the chicken about as thin as it will go without shredding.  Tip:  Use the edge of the mallet to help tenderize and spread thin the meat. 

puerto rican chicken 9puerto rican chicken 5 

Take your flattened chicken, either as you go or after you get your aggression out on all six of them, and sprinkle seasonings and add cheese.  I do this in my hand because I’m about to roll it anyway. 

puerto rican chicken 1puerto rican chicken 2 


Roll the chicken around the cheese as tightly as possible without tearing the meat, then wrap the bacon around the whole thing.  Neatness is only for style points – my goal here is usually to cover any places the cheese might try to seep out as it melts. 

puerto rican chicken 3 
Arrange in a dish and pour the vinegar/oil over top.  I usually add a little extra, up to double, just so I ensure a nice, moist finished product.  There’s no trick to the arranging, either.  An 8×8 dish will do.  This photo is obviously after baking, because I needed to get it in the oven quickly and forgot a “before” picture.  Who needs to see more raw meat photos anyway? 

Is anyone wondering who took my raw meat photos since my hands were clearly tied up?  My 4-year-old son, a photographer in the making!  He was still enough to use no flash and framed everything quite nicely, don’t you think?  I’m impressed, but that’s my job as “mom”.  (Funny aside:  he got a kids’ digital camera for Christmas and takes pictures of everything, always twice.  Snaps one, then turns the camera vertically and murmurs, “Ok, uh-huh, here we go…” and takes another.  He likes to document toys, the whole family’s Christmas gifts up close, and every so often, a person.  Think he ever es anyone take pictures of inanimate objects?) 



Print This Recipe 
Puerto Rican Chicken 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Dinners 
Ingredients 
3 chicken breasts, cut in half 
1 tsp. garlic salt (or garlic powder mixed w/sea salt) 
1 tsp. onion salt (same as above works) 
1 tsp. oregano 
3 oz. Monterey Jack cheese, in 6 slices 
6 slices bacon 
2 tsp. vinegar 
2 tsp. olive oil 
dash of pepper 
Instructions 
Pound chicken to flatten. 
Stir together garlic salt, onion salt, oregano and pepper. 
Sprinkle half of the seasoning mixture over the chicken. 
Place a slice of cheese on each chicken piece and roll up the chicken around the cheese. 
Sprinkle with remaining seasoning mix. 
Wrap each chicken roll with a strip of bacon. 
Place in a small, shallow baking dish. 
Stir together vinegar and oil. 
Pour over chicken. 
Bake in a 375-degree oven for 1 hour or until golden. 
Serves 3-4 


 
The original recipe, which I received at my bridal shower, says to serve with avocado slices, fresh fruit and a salad.  We pretty consistently served it with Vigo Black Beans and Rice, and now use my reverse engineered homemade version of Cuban Black Beans and Rice (Recipe available in The Everything Beans Book). (NEWLY UPDATED TODAY!) 



FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What Exactly is “Breastsleeping?” 
Breastfeeding Place 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Chicken Barley Leek Soup Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

301 
Do you eat leeks very often? Give them a try with homemade chicken, barley and leek soup.I ran into a leek today at the supermarket.  I’ve never bought a leek, or even looked one in the face before.  The closest I’ve ever come is reading about them.  They bring to mind a sensation of English literature, like if I was the little girl in The Secret Garden, I would eat leeks at teatime in the parlor. 

I knew a leek was in the onion family…and I’d actually come across a Rachael Ray soup recipe earlier in the week containing leeks that I thought I might be able to try.  When I ran into the leek – organic at that! – on accident in the produce section, I thought I’ll just have to buy it and jump headlong into the recipe without looking back. 


Note:  This post was written last winter: of course I get my leeks at the Farmer’s Market this time of year! 

A Bit About Leeks 
Luckily Rachael Ray actually took the time out of her 30 minutes to describe how to cut and wash the leek:  You have to cut off the very tip of the white part, then slice it lengthwise so that you can wash between the layers down there.  There’s a lot of dirt in a leek!  You then slice the white part into thin half moon shapes.  You can then cut into the greens until you reach the “tough part”.  The shape is kind of up to you for the greens: I went with little diced squares.  Most recipes for leeks will note if you use just the white part, or not. 

Do you eat leeks very often? Give them a try with homemade chicken, barley and leek soup.Leeks emanate a rather pleasant, delicate, onion-y scent as you cut them.  The half-moon part was easy, but I’m still not quite sure where I was supposed to stop cutting!  It was clear that the leeks, which are white on the bottom with broad, flat, hardy strips of leaves on top, had been cut for aesthetics in the grocery store.  So did they already cut off “the tough part”?  Or was that my job?  I went with a halfway job, cutting about halfway up the stalk and putting the rest back in my fridge in case I decided it was safe to eat another day.  It’s always an adventure – a worthwhile one! – to try a new fruit or vegetable. I’ve purchased another leek or two since then, and I pretty much use the whole thing.  We haven’t died yet! 

Do you eat leeks very often? Give them a try with homemade chicken, barley and leek soup.exclamation_32x32Leftovers note:  Leeks can be cut and frozen, just like an onion, according to my man at the Farmer’s Market.  I’ve got some waiting for mid-winter! 

Wintersoup 3D eBook 200Looking for more soup recipes? You won’t want to miss the eBook Winter Soups, a compilation from over 50 real food bloggers. I truly enjoy having this book in my collection for all the great new ideas. Check it out here. 

Katie’s Chicken Barley Leek Soup 
Here’s the result of Rachael Ray, the leek, and I collaborating on a soup that turned out to be one of the best I’ve had all winter long. It seriously reminds me of a high quality restaurant soup, and by chance, all the veggies were on sale organic that week (added bonus!) and the chicken was local, so I felt really good about serving it to my family. I even had enough of the double batch to share with a friend with cancer and another who was expecting twins any second! She got her fuel for labor from my soup – I was so proud! Turns out I didn’t use Miss Ray’s recipe much beyond learning to cut a leek, so I feel no guilt in sharing: 

Do you eat leeks very often? Give them a try with homemade chicken, barley and leek soup. 

1-2 Tbs each butter and olive oil 
2 leeks 
2-4 carrots 
3-5 ribs celery 
4 oz. baby portobella (or white) mushrooms 
¼-1/2 tsp bay leaf seasoning (or one bay leaf) 
1-2 tsp thyme 
6 c. chicken broth 
2 c. cooked chicken 
½ c. barley* 
*I got my barley at a health foods store – “organic pearled barley” – for less money than what I can usually find at Meijer, Quaker “quick” barley.  If you have to use quick barley, it will still be tasty, but that whole barley, soaked, was amazing!  If you can find “hulled barley”, I’ve since learned that it is even less processed than “pearled”, therefore more nutritious, and equally delicious. 

Instructions 


Slice and sauté vegetables in butter and olive oil about 5 minutes.  Add seasonings and sauté a few more minutes.  Add broth and barley.  Bring to a boil and reduce heat to simmer until barley is done, about 30-45 minutes.  If the barley soaks up too much broth, add more.  Add chicken, 1 tsp salt and ½-1 tsp pepper. 
I would highly recommend making a big pot of chicken stock and using the homemade stock and cooked chicken for this soup. 

Do you eat leeks very often? Give them a try with homemade chicken, barley and leek soup. Healthier Upgrade 

Soaked option:  soak a cup of barley in water and 2 Tbs whey or lemon juice overnight, then cook with salt about 45 minutes.  Drain before adding to soup.  Eye up the amount, then save and freeze the rest for your next batch.

Print This Recipe 
Katie's Chicken Barley Leek Soup 
 

Print 
Prep time 
10 mins 
Cook time 
45 mins 
Total time 
55 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Soup 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
1-2 Tbs. each butter and olive oil 
2 leeks 
2-4 carrots 
3-5 ribs celery 
4 oz. baby portobella (or white) mushrooms 
¼-1/2 tsp. bay leaf seasoning (or one bay leaf) 
1-2 tsp. thyme 
6 c. chicken broth 
2 c. cooked chicken 
½ c. barley* 

Instructions 
Slice and sauté vegetables in butter and olive oil about 5 minutes. 
Add seasonings and sauté a few more minutes. 
Add broth and barley. 
Bring to a boil and reduce heat to simmer until barley is done, about 30-45 minutes. If the barley soaks up too much broth, add more. 
Add chicken, 1 tsp salt and ½-1 tsp pepper. 
Notes 
I would highly recommend making a big pot of chicken stock and using the homemade stock and cooked chicken for this soup. 

Healthier Upgrade 

Soaked option: Soak a cup of barley in water and 2 Tbs whey or lemon juice overnight, then cook with salt about 45 minutes. Drain before adding to soup. Eye up the amount, then save and freeze the rest for your next batch. 

*I got my barley at a health foods store – “organic pearled barley” – for less money than what I can usually find at Meijer, Quaker “quick” barley. If you have to use quick barley, it will still be tasty, but that whole barley, soaked, was amazing! If you can find “hulled barley”, I’ve since learned that it is even less processed than “pearled”, therefore more nutritious, and equally delicious. 

What will YOU run into at the store? 
I dare you to try something new this month. Find a good recipe that you would usually skip over because of an unfamiliar ingredient.  (Choose a healthy new adventuresome ingredient, of course.)  Last week’s bean recipe round-up or this week’s broth/stock carnival are great places to start!  (Or grab a leek…this soup’s fast, easy and delish!) 

Do you eat leeks very often? Give them a try with homemade chicken, barley and leek soup.Other Recipes to Choose From: 


Crockpot Tuscan Beef Stew 
Turkey Pot Pie (or How to Use up Leftovers) 
Tuscan Bean Soup 
Garlic Soup 
Sausage Zucchini Bake 
Photo of leek source 

This recipe is linked into: 

Pennywise Platter Thursday at The Nourishing Gourmet 
Food Roots at Nourishing Days 
Mouthwatering Mondays at A Southern Fairytale. 
Grocery Cart Challenge Recipe Swap 
Friday Food at MomTrends 
Foodie Friday at Designs by Gollum 
Frugal Fridays at Life as MOM 
Holiday Food Fest 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy

What's so special about these toys?
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

8 Things to do Before 8 am 
Beauty in the Mess 

Healthy and Warming Winter Soups 
Gourmande in the Kitchen 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest301 


START RECIPE


Sausage Zucchini Bake Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

102 
Sausage Zucchini Bake. Perfect summer recipe for fresh zucchini, homemade sausage, and the best flavor you'll pack into a grain-free meal! Make anytime, really, but summer is amazing. 

Is everyone still drowning in zucchini out there? If you’re looking for a low-carb (no-carb?), filled with veggies, use-up-your-zucchini meal that fills tummies and pleases tastebuds, you’re at the right post. This may well be our favorite summer meal, and I love it because it’s so healthy and easy to make. 

I also have some great memories of my two-year-old son slicing zucchini with his cheese slicer that looks like a meat cleaver. (See this post for a photo!) Buddy Boy completely did the zucchini job himself two years ago. …If only I could get him to help me in the kitchen like that now! (“Mom, can I go outside and play with my friends?”) 


You’ll want to find a tasty sausage for this recipe, and use a spaghetti sauce that you know your family likes. Those two ingredients are the star players and change the flavor dramatically. We used some good pastured pork sausage this summer, but in the past I have used cheap ground turkey and made it into homemade sausage. 

Sausage Zucchini Bake. Perfect summer recipe for fresh zucchini, homemade sausage, and the best flavor you'll pack into a grain-free meal! Make anytime, really, but summer is amazing. 

Sausage Zucchini Bake 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball
Ingredients 
1 pound sausage, mild or spicy, or homemade 
1 chopped onion 
1 chopped green pepper 
1-3 cloves garlic, crushed 
1-2 large zucchini, sliced 
1 jar spaghetti sauce or 3 c. homemade 
1 Tbs. fresh basil, chopped 
1-2 Roma tomatoes, sliced 
2 c. shredded mozzarella cheese 
Parmesan cheese 
Instructions 
Brown sausage. 
Saute onion, pepper and garlic (add last) with the meat (in olive oil? See this post for research!). 
Pour a little spaghetti sauce in a 9x13 glass baking dish. 
Layer 1-2 large sliced zucchinis on top. 
Mix the remaining spaghetti sauce in a large bowl with the sauteed meat and veggies and the fresh basil. 
Pour over the zucchini. 
Layer sliced tomatoes (they don't have to be Romas, but those are prettier) on top, then cover with mozzarella cheese and Parmesan cheese. 
Cover and bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes, then uncover and bake for 15-30 minutes longer, until the cheese is browned and the sides are bubbling. 
Notes 
*Note: If you want to make sure the zucchini gets soft, you can optionally parboil it for a few minutes before layering in the pan. I skip that step because I hate making more dishes! Also, the dish will be pretty watery at the end if you use raw zukes, so either parboil, roast on a cookie sheet, or slice/shred and salt the zucchini and drain well before layering. 

Since I'm learning so much about the dangers of aluminum, I chose to tent the aluminum foil so it didn't really touch the cheese. 

You can also put parchment paper under the foil so it doesn't touch the food OR simply invert a cookie sheet over the baking dish. 

If you roasted your zucchini, use the same cookie sheet as the lid above. 


Sausage Zucchini Bake. Perfect summer recipe for fresh zucchini, homemade sausage, and the best flavor you'll pack into a grain-free meal! Make anytime, really, but summer is amazing.Not perhaps the most photogenic meal, especially if you don’t take the time to get the extra moisture out of the zukes first…but one of the most delicious recipes I have! 

Sausage Zucchini Bake. Perfect summer recipe for fresh zucchini, homemade sausage, and the best flavor you'll pack into a grain-free meal! Make anytime, really, but summer is amazing.Challenge yourself to get as many ingredients as you can from your Farmer’s Market or your garden! Just another reason to love this dish. 

Find the ultimate list of zucchini recipes at The Finer Things in Life. 

It was a tough choice, but I chose this as my Favorite Recipe for Life as MOM’s Ultimate Recipe Swap today. There are so many good ones! 

Other Great Summer Recipes: 

Jamaican Meat Marinade (recipe no longer available) 
Summer Fruit Dips 
Homemade Guacamole 
California Chicken Wraps 
Pasta Salad Variations: Traditional, Pizza, Spicy Red Pepper and Greek 
Sausage, Beans and Kale Soup 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

8 Things to do Before 8 am 
Beauty in the Mess 

Healthy and Warming Winter Soups 
Gourmande in the Kitchen 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest102 


START RECIPE


Cabbage Soup with Secret Super Food
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission.

57
This cabbage soup is packed with nutrients including one powerhouse that you'd never guess. Grab a big pot. It's soup night!
Do you know the thrill of creating a recipe from scratch? I can’t tell you how tickled I get when I manage something like this (it’s happened only a handful of times in my life). I think it’s pretty cool already that I have become bold enough in the kitchen to mess with other people’s recipes and  this and add that. I always think it looks so suave on the cooking shows when they don’t use measuring cups or spoons, but just dump spices into their hands or twirl the oil around the pan. Do you feel like you’re on TV when you do that in your kitchen? (I do. Just don’t tell anyone: it’s not very humble of me.)



This story starts with cabbage. I bought my first head of cabbage this spring after reading about how healthy they are. The timing was great because they are so cheap around St. Patrick’s Day, although they’re one of the best buys in the produce section any time of year. I had always thought before that they were in a category with iceberg lettuce and didn’t have many nutrients. Don’t judge a book by its cover! I had this recipe picked out for the cabbage, but it only needed half the head. What do you do with a half head of cabbage (when you barely knew what to do with the first half)?

I pulled up a few cabbage soup recipes and decided on one that had beans in it and was based with chicken stock (two of my favorite foods to cook with, if you’ve been around KS for long!).

Cabbage Recipes on the Computer and Multiple Tabs
Now you have to tell me: does anyone else do this? When I find a recipe or post I find interesting, I just leave it open in a tab. I currently have 11 windows open, each with 3-10 tabs. What?!? My husband thinks I’m crazy. Is this a female thing or just my weird quirk?

So this recipe was up on my computer for over a week, and I would pass it and think, yep, that’s planned for next week. But I never bookmarked it or printed it…and the night I wanted to make the soup, my computer had been acting up and lost all my windows. (Grrrr…)  It was off, and I wasn’t in the mood to wrestle with it.

I decided I’d seen the recipe flash past enough times that I could wing it! I don’t have a clue if this is close to the original: I couldn’t remember the seasonings at all, so I think it really is “mine.” Love it! Bragging! Shutting up now – here’s the recipe…

This cabbage soup is packed with nutrients including one powerhouse that you'd never guess. Grab a big pot. It's soup night!

Cabbage Soup with Secret Super Food
 

Print
Author: Katie Kimball
Ingredients
Olive oil and butter ($0.30)
1 large onion, coarsely chopped ($0.25)
3-5 stalks celery, sliced ($0.25)
3 carrots, sliced ($0.30)
4 cloves garlic, chopped ($0.10)
1-2 cans great northern beans (or 2-3 cups cooked if using dry) ($0.50-1.50)
½ head cabbage, thinly sliced ($0.50-1.50 – varies greatly by time of year)
6 cups chicken stock (free if homemade or $2-4.00)
1-2 cups pumpkin ($0.40-1.00)
1 tsp salt
½ tsp pepper
1+ tsp cumin
optional: 8 oz. can tomato sauce ($0.50)
Instructions
Melt ~1Tbs butter and 2Tbs olive oil.
Add the onion, celery, carrots, garlic, and beans in order as you chop them.
By the time you add the beans, the onions should be soft.
Add salt, pepper, cumin and stir.
Add cabbage and cover 5 minutes or so to wilt.
Add broth, pumpkin (frozen is fine) and optional tomato sauce.
Bring to a boil and reduce to high simmer.
Cover and cook 15-30 minutes until carrots and cabbage are tender. Serves 8 - 10.
Notes
Super foods: 8 (or 9 with tomato sauce) That is a ridiculous number of super foods! I’m proud of my recipe – can you cram any more nutrients in there? Husband would say “add meat” of course…

Cost: $2.60-$5.70, up close to $10 if you use fancy chicken stock.

I like how this underscores the frugality of doing things yourself and shopping the sales and seasons. Dry beans and homemade chicken stock make a massive difference in price here, and shopping for pumpkin in the fall and cabbage in March really cut down the total cost as well. Under $3 to feed 10 people? Seriously. That’s awesome.

Yum
The version with tomato sauce…

This cabbage soup is packed with nutrients including one powerhouse that you'd never guess. Grab a big pot. It's soup night!

The Story of the Secret Ingredient
As I was assembling the ingredients I did some thinking like, “What spices will taste good with cabbage and beans?” which ran quickly into, “What spices does my family love and I’m in the mood for tonight?”  After tasting the soup, I must have been pondering orange vegetables. Maybe I was thinking about upcoming Super Foods. Maybe I was thinking about stuff in my freezer that I needed to use up. (I always freeze extras from a can of pumpkin in one-cup portions for muffins, but never make enough muffins…)  Maybe I noticed the many cans of pumpkin I have in my basement that I bought in the fall (when they’re on sale and then on clearance after Thanksgiving!) that I need to remember to use more often. Whatever the inspiration, my sneaky little self thought, “Could I put pumpkin in cabbage soup???”

Find this recipe, updated and with even more frugal tips and transformation options, along with 29 other bean recipes and a ton of information on cooking dry beans, the health benefits of beans, and ideas for bean haters in The Everything Beans Book, available now at Kitchen Stewardship!
My husband only eats pumpkin in muffins and bread. He won’t do pumpkin pie. He doesn’t do squash soup or sweet potato fries. The man is not picky, but he has a thing against orange fall vegetables, apparently. He also told me that his mom used to serve a tomato-based cabbage soup when he was little that he just loved. I know better: pumpkins aren’t tomatoes. I almost didn’t do it…but a holy kitchen super food boldness stole over me…

I actually put 1 cup of pumpkin in half the soup and 1 cup of tomato sauce in the other half. My husband couldn’t guess what the “secret super food” was until I hinted about pie (practically gave it away). He was surprised to find he liked the pumpkin version better than the tomato, and another friend over for lunch that week concurred. (And she ed for the recipe, the best compliment she could give!)

Now you have it too. See if your family can guess the secret super food!
Once you open the can of pumpkin, what next? Here are 20 Ways to use Leftover Pumpkin.

The Healthy Lunch Box - packed with lunch ideas to go!Packing healthy lunches when you’re short on time and out of bread is mind-boggling. Is there such a thing as a lunch without a sandwich? Is it possible for it to be healthy too?
The Healthy Lunch Box: Sandwich-free Secrets to Packing a Real Food Lunch is loaded with strategies to streamline your packing process, stock your pantry with emergency backups for your backups, and send healthy, delicious food in the lunch box, no matter how old your eater is. Read more and start packing healthier, processed-free lunches today.


This cabbage soup is packed with nutrients including one powerhouse that you'd never guess. Grab a big pot. It's soup night!

FROM SITES WE LOVE

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe
5 Minutes For Mom

Homemade Corn Dogs
Nourishing Joy

What's so special about these toys?
5 Minutes For Mom

After Sun Spray
Nourishing Joy

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes
Nourishing Joy

8 Things to do Before 8 am
Beauty in the Mess

Healthy and Warming Winter Soups
Gourmande in the Kitchen

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get…
An Oregon Cottage
powered by PubExchange
acebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest57
57
SHARES


START RECIPE


California Chicken Wraps Recipe – Easy Weeknight Dinner 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

California Chicken Wraps - Healthy, Frugal and Easy! Costs less than $1 per wrap 

Here’s the promised recipe for the second way my family uses avocados (after guac). I learned this wrap at a Pampered Chef party, and we looooove it around here. I always feel like I’m at a good restaurant when I serve them. So easy, so yummy. 

California Chicken Wraps - Healthy, Frugal and Easy! Costs less than $1 per wrap 


California Chicken Wraps 
 

Print 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Ingredients 
Tortillas (whole wheat or homemade) 
Mashed or sliced avocado 
Cooked shredded chicken 
Sliced cucumbers 
Sliced tomatoes 
Sliced red onion 
Homemade ranch dressing (+ cut cucumbers, optional) 
Shredded cheese 
Lettuce 

Instructions 
Chop some cucumbers and cover with ranch dressing: 
Stir and let sit while you cut everything else. 
Cook chicken if necessary and slice vegetables. 
Salt chicken and add a little Italian seasoning if you have it. 
Assemble wraps in order given. 
Roll tightly and grill on a George Foreman or in a very hot pan (dry, no Teflon), seam side down first. 
Turn once if in pan. 
Remove when tortillas are lightly browned. 
Notes 
Cost: less than $1 per wrap: varies depending on what kind of chicken and tortillas you buy. Can be made as a grilled sandwich on whole wheat bread, too. Super foods: 1, plus 3 honorable mentions (use herbed plain yogurt instead of ranch and add some spinach leaves to make 3 super foods!) 

Pile onto a homemade tortilla. I like them with mustard! 

California Chicken Wraps - Healthy, Frugal and Easy! Costs less than $1 per wrap 

Or…happily toasting on the George. 

TIPS AND TRANSFORMATIONS: 
We like it with plain ranch and mustard, because hubby doesn’t like cucumbers. 
I almost always serve it with a side of Chicken Rice-a-Roni, homemade version. 
Add bacon or pepperoni and hot pepper for an Italian twist. 
Use Caesar dressing for something different 
Chicken is best stir fried or leftover roasted chicken, BUT if you want to use your chicken from making stock, I would recommend sautéing it in olive oil first for flavor.
California Chicken Wraps - Healthy, Frugal and Easy! Costs less than $1 per wrap 


OTHER RECIPE CONNECTIONS: 
Potato Salad with the Kids 
Homemade Refried Beans 
The Best Scrambled Eggs Ever 
Crockpot Tuscan Beef Stew 
Turkey Pot Pie (or How to Use up Leftovers) 
Frugal Homemade Pizza Sauce 
Green Smoothies with Kale 
Meatless Meals Carnival 
Tuscan Bean Soup 
Garlic Soup 
Summer Fruit Dips 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

CoSchedule Review - Is It Worth It? 
A Little Insanity 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Whole 30, Oven-Fried, Sweet Potato Curly Fries 
The Frugal Farm Wife 

How To Prep Your Car For Winter Road Trips 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE


Cancer Fighting Vegetable Soup Recipe with an Asian Twist 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

177 
Cancer Fighting Vegetable Soup Recipe with an Asian Twist. Fight cancer naturally with these super foods. So easy to make and full of flavor. This soup is literally a life saver. 
My dad kicked chemo’s butt. 

There’s no denying it, the man weathered chemotherapy (for bladder cancer) with fewer side effects and more energy than anyone I’ve ever heard of. 


He had eight sessions of chemo, a six-hour infusion, then a two-hour infusion a week later, then a week off, repeating four times over twelve weeks. 

On his last six-hour infusion, when he should have been down and out because chemo builds up in your system and can be worse and worse each time you go, he and my mom visited our family immediately after the appointment and stayed the weekend. 

Rather than taking naps, sitting around ing TV and struggling to work up an appetite for meals, he sanded and put two coats of lacquer on our kids’ wooden picnic table, took our 35-pound 2-year-old for at least three walks in the wagon, and ate every meal with us. 

It’s honestly more energy than he used to have during a visit to our house! 

I wanted to make sure I served really clean, wholesome meals for them during that time to keep up with the great things my mom had been doing at home: reducing grains, including greens and probiotics in smoothies, keeping the fluid intake wayyyyyy up to protect his kidneys, and generally avoiding as many synthetic chemicals as possible in foods and personal products. 

Cancer Fighting Vegetable Soup Recipe with an Asian Twist. Fight cancer naturally with these super foods. So easy to make and full of flavor. This soup is literally a life saver.
What to Feed Someone After Chemo? 
I had promised I’d have a soup available the night they arrived in case Dad was hungry for a late-night snack (they’d need to eat dinner on the road on the way over). 

I had leftover venison from a roast earlier in the week, plenty of broth, and this list of cancer-fighting foods that I wanted to use as much as possible during the visit. My mom had admitted that although I had recommended including artichokes in their meals a few times a week, she had tried a few new recipes and Dad didn’t like them. 

After I found out my dad had cancer, I did a lot of research to help him fight cancer with food. I collated all the information I found, the research-based and the slightly off-the-wall, into a few lists of foods to eat often, sometimes, hardly ever and hopefully never. 

I printed out a list for my parents, and I’ve created a PDF for you to print, too. 

Click here to get the printable list of foods to eat to fight cancer 

I was determined to show her that finely chopped artichokes could disappear into all sorts of meals and served them three or four times during the weekend, knocking out an entire Costco-sized jar! This soup was only the beginning… 


Cancer Fighting Vegetable Soup Recipe with an Asian Twist. Fight cancer naturally with these super foods. So easy to make and full of flavor. This soup is literally a life saver.
I literally ticked through the cancer-fighting foods list and the contents of my fridge and freezer, trying to stick with an Asian-inspired theme but including as many high-nutrient veggies as I could. I used 50 percent of the list, and the soup turned out to be surprisingly tasty considering there aren’t a ton of seasonings involved, just a few simple but powerful foundations: onion, garlic, ginger and soy sauce. 

Wondering if cancer could affect you or your family? I was pleasantly surprised with my results to this super quick quiz after my dad’s successful battle with bladder cancer! 


Served with this cancer-fighting cabbage slaw, a roasted beet salad (or hot roasted beets with butter, salt and pepper), and perhaps some grain-free biscuits, it made an excellent and powerfully nourishing meal. I include a few beet salad options in this post, and in The Healthy Lunch Box eBook. Smile 


4.5 from 2 reviews 
Easy Cancer Fighting Asian Vegetable Soup 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
35 mins 
 
Note: Ingredients often use affiliate links to Amazon, but obviously you should shop for the best price and try to keep your dollars local when you can. 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Soup 
Serves: 6-8 
Ingredients 
2-4 Tbs. fat 
2 medium onions, diced or sliced 
1 medium to large head of bok choy, separated 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
⅓ large head cabbage (about 2-3 cups shredded) 
2 large carrots, sliced or diced 
fresh ginger root, grated, to taste (1/2 inch or up to 3 inches) 
4 c. spinach or any other leafy green, finely chopped if you prefer 
5-6 c. beef broth, preferably homemade 
1½ tsp. Real Salt 
¼-1/2 tsp. pepper 
artichoke hearts, chopped (use ~9 hearts, which is about 1 15-oz. can, drained) 
2 c. cooked and cubed beef or venison 
⅓ lb. fresh or frozen broccoli (2 c.), chopped 
1 c. cauliflower, chopped 
1 5-oz. can water chestnuts, drained and diced or sliced 
soy sauce and grated Parmesan or Romano to serve 
Instructions 
In your favorite fat (tallow, refined coconut oil (use the code STEWARDSHIP for 10% off at that site!) or extra virgin olive oil are good choices) over medium heat, saute onions for at least 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Press the garlic and set aside. 
Wash the bok choy well and dice the woody white parts of the stems. Reserve the leaves. Add to the saute for a few minutes while you slice the cabbage and carrots. 
When the onions and bok choy are translucent, add the cabbage, carrots, garlic and fresh ginger to taste. Stir around for a minute or two while chopping up the bok choy greens, then add the bok choy greens and any other greens you are using. Stir and cover for about a minute to wilt. (If you have green-o-phobes in the family, chop up the greens. Otherwise baby spinach leaves can just go in whole.) 
Pour in the beef broth and increase the heat to high. 
Add the salt, pepper, artichokes and meat. Cover the pot. 
Chop the broccoli and cauliflower (fresh or frozen for each works fine) and add to the pot along with the water chestnuts, cut to whatever size you prefer. (They will add a crunch, so if whole slices seem a bit large, cut into fourths or so.) 
When the broth comes to a boil, reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 5-15 minutes until all the vegetables are tender. 
Serve hot with soy sauce at the table. (You could add 2-4 Tbs. soy sauce into the soup right away instead, but I preferred to allow people to adjust that flavor to their own tastes. 
Add additional salt or put fresh grated Parmesan or Romano on top if it “needs a little something.” 
Notes 
* A can of diced tomatoes adds a lot of flavor, color, and one more superfood for cancer. 

*If you really feel that you need a starch in the soup, add one diced potato with the broth or some cooked whole grains like rice or barley, but for an anti-cancer diet, fewer starchy carbs are best. 

* Note: If you have folks in your family who would say, “Boy, this sure is a vegetable soup,” because they prefer meaty meals, feel free to increase the meat. Nothing wrong with well-sourced, grassfed or wild meat on a cancer-fighting diet. 
Yum 
Cancer Fighting Vegetable Soup Recipe with an Asian Twist. Fight cancer naturally with these super foods. So easy to make and full of flavor. This soup is literally a life saver. 

Do you do soup in the summer? 
Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Amazon and Tropical Traditions from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase, and the probiotics are from my own Miessence store. See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

CoSchedule Review - Is It Worth It? 
A Little Insanity 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Whole 30, Oven-Fried, Sweet Potato Curly Fries 
The Frugal Farm Wife 

How To Prep Your Car For Winter Road Trips 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest177 


START RECIPE

Grain-Free Greek Main Dish Muffins 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

You're sure to love these grain-free beef and chickpea muffins with feta all through - they look special and taste delish! 

If your stuff always falls out of your wraps or gyros, how about a main dish muffin for a semi-portable meal that’s also uber fun and delicious? 

In my attempt to have fun with food this week, I created a silly muffin meal: muffins, followed by muffins, with a side of muffins, and muffins for dessert. 


All food groups were well represented, and I thought it made for a mighty pretty plate, in spite of the ridiculousness of a plate full of muffins for dinner. 

Today I’ll share the recipe for the main dish muffin: meat, beans, eggs, and cheese, packed with protein and baked with tantalizing Greek flavors. 

You're sure to love these grain-free beef and chickpea muffins with feta all through - they look special and taste delish! 

The muffins are loosely based on a meat and spinach muffin from Well Fed, a Paleo cookbook. We had the author’s version for breakfast once, and my wheels started turning about how many places those muffins could go. 

The Healthy Breakfast BookIs breakfast monotonous at your house? Uninspiring? Or worse…processed? Get a little inspiration from The Healthy Breakfast Book, over 60 recipes plus efficiency tips and sample meal plans to make every breakfast nourishing. This recipe is just one of the great ideas to serve at a company brunch to help others fall in love with real food, too!Get the whole premium package with bonus mini eBooks and Kindle/Nook files right HERE. 

If you’re rolling your eyes right now, I know: it’s ironic that I added legumes and cheese to a Paleo dish. Eh. It’s still grain-free, at least. Winking smile 

Greek Main Dish Meat-and-Chickpea Muffins 
 

Print 
Prep time 
30 mins 
Cook time 
40 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 10 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
½ lb. ground beef 
1½ c. cooked chickpeas, divided 
½ tsp. salt 
¼ tsp. pepper 
½ c. chopped red pepper (optional) 
½ c. chopped onion (about 1 medium) 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
2-6 c. fresh spinach 
½-1 c. chopped broccoli, optional 
1 Tbs. lemon juice 
2 tsp. dried oregano 
½ c. feta cheese, plus more to top 
4 eggs 
chopped tomatoes for topping 
Instructions 
Brown the beef, seasoning with salt and pepper and adding onions and peppers for the last 5 minutes. 
While this is cooking, mash or food process 1 cup of the chickpeas (garbanzo beans). Also put muffin cup liners in your pan. You'll want them! Preheat the oven to 375F. 
When the onions are getting translucent, add the crushed garlic and fresh spinach, washed and roughly chopped, stirring over medium heat for 1-2 minutes until the spinach is all wilted. Turn off the heat. 
Alternate spinach methods: You could also very quickly steam the spinach separately OR use frozen spinach, about a pound package, but you'd need to thaw and thoroughly drain it first. 
Add chopped broccoli or any other veggies you want to sneak in there. 
In a medium sized bowl, beat the eggs, then mix in all the meat and veggie mixture, plus the additional half cup whole chickpeas, lemon juice, oregano, and feta cheese. If you added extra veggies, you may need an additional egg to compensate. 
Transfer to lined muffin cups with a heaping quarter cup measuring cup and gently press down with the bottom of the cup. 
Bake at 375F for 30-40 minutes or 15-20 for mini muffins. 
They're done when the egg is set. 
Serve with additional feta and chopped tomatoes on top. 
Makes 12 muffins or 24 mini muffins (or more if you add more veggies). 
Notes 
* Did you know you can freeze feta cheese? Don't ever let a container go bad again. Using it in muffins like these is a great way to get it out of the freezer and onto your plate. 
* The whole chickpeas can be like a treasure hunt. Who gets one? 😉 
* Need lower carb? Take the chickpeas right out and just use a whole pound of ground beef. 
* Inspired by Well Fed by Melissa Joulwan. 


Need a starter salad for the meal? Try this yummy homemade Greek dressing. 

Want more muffins to make a meal? You’ll laugh at our silly muffin meal. 

You're sure to love these grain-free beef and chickpea muffins with feta all through - they look special and taste delish! 

Pizza Muffins? 
I’ve had quite a bit of fun trying alternative versions of this muffin. I think I’ve perfected the pizza muffin – my husband said, “This may be the best breakfast I’ve ever had…it’s like eating pizza for breakfast, but without worrying about the grains!” 

They have cheese right on top, and oh! So good! 


If you want that recipe, though, you’ll have to check out The Healthy Breakfast Book… 

You're sure to love these grain-free beef and chickpea muffins with feta all through - they look special and taste delish!Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Amazon from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. See my full disclosure statement here. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

CoSchedule Review - Is It Worth It? 
A Little Insanity 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Whole 30, Oven-Fried, Sweet Potato Curly Fries 
The Frugal Farm Wife 

How To Prep Your Car For Winter Road Trips 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

157 
All-day flavor can be yours in a flash with the Instant Pot. This smoky Mexican chicken soup recipe has authentic flavor that is perfect for weeknight dinners. 

What’s the big deal with the Instant Pot, you ? Why all the hype? 

I can tell you why I have learned to appreciate it: 

It’s quick! When I forget to meal plan or thaw meat, it’s a lifesaver at 4:00 p.m. I imagine it has even saved many a meal across the country at 5 p.m. or later. 
It’s hands-free. Once all the ingredients are in the pot, I can walk away and it regulates the high vs. low heat so I don’t have to worry about boiling something over (which I do often), I don’t have to stir, and I don’t have to think. As a mom of 4…that’s kind of important to regaining sanity sometimes. (Funny sidenote: I went to type “retaining” there but apparently my subconscious told my fingers otherwise…I guess I’ll leave it!) 
It doesn’t burn the overnight steel cut oats. Every time I’ve tried oatmeal in a slow cooker, it hasn’t gone well, and the “nest a glass dish in some water inside the slow cooker” strategy would not even feed my hungry people one meal! 
Fewer dishes. Because you can saute right in the Instant Pot, you will never have to have a second pan to sear meat or caramelize onions. Slow cooker recipes always tick me off when they do that… 
Multi-function. It’s a slow cooker, too. 
Safe materials. It’s been a big deal off and on over the years about the safety of crockpot inserts. There have been questions of lead leaching (which I’m looking into for a future post actually), so it’s just doggone nice to have stainless steel as the surface in the IP. I don’t worry about it. Phew! 
More room on the stovetop. When things are really hopping in my kitchen, which can happen even without a big party, I’m pumped to have a “fifth burner” basically, because the Instant Pot can do everything a pot on the stove can do (and more). 
There are probably more benefits, and you’ll see some in the post about basic Instant Pot techniques like boiling eggs and cooking rice, but those are the biggies for me. 

It’s not without its drawbacks – last night for some weird reason it took 4 tries to get it to have pressure to cook a recipe. I’m still troubleshooting and hoping it was my fault! Answer coming in a future post in the Instant Post series… 

Make your Instant Pot work for you! 
The Instant Pot has gotten a lot of hype over the last couple years – for good reason. It really can do just about anything. 

Although it can seem a bit daunting to use at first, it really becomes quite simple once you give it a try. 

Use the techniques, tips and simple recipes from the Instant Pot Guidebook to get started, and before you know it, your Instant Pot will become indispensable! 
 
Get the Instant Pot Guidebook for FREE!


All-day flavor can be yours in a flash with the Instant Pot. This smoky Mexican chicken soup recipe has authentic flavor that is perfect for weeknight dinners. 

For today, I have another recipe for you, one that my husband made easily. It’s SUPER quick in the Instant Pot but also can totally be made in a slow cooker or on the stovetop. It’s a simple Mexican soup with a smoky twist that makes it a little more grown-up, in my opinion (and it’s inexpensive too). Enjoy! 

All-day flavor can be yours in a flash with the Instant Pot. This smoky Mexican chicken soup recipe has authentic flavor that is perfect for weeknight dinners. 

Recipe: Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup – make in the Instant Pot, Slow Cooker or Stovetop 
Instant Pot Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
35 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Soup 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
1 Tbs. olive oil 
1 onion, diced 
1 green or red pepper, diced 
2 c. carrots, chopped/diced/shredded (whatever is easiest for you) 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
3 chicken breasts or thighs 
4 c. chicken stock 
2 (14 oz) cans diced tomatoes (or one home-canned quart) 
1 (7 oz) can tomato paste 
2 tsp. chili powder 
1 tsp. ground cumin 
1 tsp. ground coriander 
½ tsp. smoked paprika 
½ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. pepper 
Fresh limes for juice 
toppings: fresh cilantro, red or green onion, shredded cheese, avocado cubes, sour cream 
Instructions 
Instant Pot 
Turn the Instant Pot to Saute and heat the oil. 
Add the onion, peppers, and carrots and stir around for 5 minutes or so until they're starting to get translucent and fragrant. 
Add the garlic for about a minute, just until you can really smell it, stirring constantly. 
Add all remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the limes. 
Lock the lid in place and make sure the valve is closed. 
Hit Manual on high and set it for 5 minutes (it will take about 10 minutes for the pressure to build and then the 5 minute high pressure countdown will begin). If using frozen chicken breasts, add at least 10 minutes to the time. 
When the timer goes off, allow the pressure to naturally release for at least 10 minutes before initiating a quick release (flip the lever on the lid from seal to vent - be careful of the steam!). 
Check chicken for doneness (no pink!). It should be done, but if by chance it isn't, you can go for another 5 minutes on high pressure. It won't take as long to heat up, and then do a quick release and check again. 
Remove the chicken from the pot and shred with two forks. Return to the pot and stir. 
To serve, squeeze lime juice into each bowl or offer lime wedges at the table along with the optional toppings. 
Stove Top 
In a large pot over medium heat, heat the oil. 
Add the onion, peppers, and carrots and stir around for 5-10 minutes or so until they're starting to get translucent and fragrant. 
Add the garlic for about a minute, just until you can really smell it, stirring constantly. 
Add all remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the limes. 
Turn the heat to high with the lid on. 
Once a rolling boil is reached, turn the heat down to medium-low and cook for 15-20 minutes with the lid on. 
Check chicken for doneness (no pink!). 
Remove the chicken from the pot and cut into pieces with a knife and fork. Return to the pot and stir. 
To serve, squeeze lime juice into each bowl or offer lime wedges at the table along with the optional toppings. 
Notes 
**Can be made in a slow cooker as well – just toss in all the ingredients and cook on low for 8 hours or high for 4 hours. You'll lose a little flavor by not sauteeing the onions and garlic first, which you could do in a separate pan. 

Adapted from Play Paleo 


Traditional Cooking School Instant Pot Sourdough Cornbread Pressure Cooker Recipe 
My dear friend Wardee at Traditional Cooking School can do just about anything with her Instant Pot – cakes, bread, main dishes, veggies, even “stacking” multiple kinds of food at once! 

She’s offering a free sourdough cornbread Instant Pot recipe! 

This cornbread is delicious, nutritious, super easy to make, and it only needs 12 minutes of cook time. 

GET THE FREE INSTANT POT SOURDOUGH CORNBREAD RECIPE 
I’d love to see more real food Instant Pot recipes available on Pinterest – pin this one for me? 
All-day flavor can be yours in a flash with the Instant Pot. This smoky Mexican chicken soup recipe has authentic flavor that is perfect for weeknight dinners. 

More Instant Pot Treasures 
Cooking Real Food with an Instant Pot Series 

10 Basic Instant Pot Techniques (some may surprise you!) 
Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oats in the Instant Pot 
Simple Cauli Rice in the Instant Pot (no food processor needed!) 
Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Dinner 
Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken (can also be made in the slow cooker) 
…and more to come this week and next! 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

Safe, Kid-Friendly Knives That Actually Cut 
Nourishing Joy 

CoSchedule Review - Is It Worth It? 
A Little Insanity 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Whole 30, Oven-Fried, Sweet Potato Curly Fries 
The Frugal Farm Wife 

How To Prep Your Car For Winter Road Trips 
5 Minutes For Mom 
powered by PubExchange 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest157 


START RECIPE

Grain-Free Greek Main Dish Muffins 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

You're sure to love these grain-free beef and chickpea muffins with feta all through - they look special and taste delish! 

If your stuff always falls out of your wraps or gyros, how about a main dish muffin for a semi-portable meal that’s also uber fun and delicious? 

In my attempt to have fun with food this week, I created a silly muffin meal: muffins, followed by muffins, with a side of muffins, and muffins for dessert. 

All food groups were well represented, and I thought it made for a mighty pretty plate, in spite of the ridiculousness of a plate full of muffins for dinner. 

Today I’ll share the recipe for the main dish muffin: meat, beans, eggs, and cheese, packed with protein and baked with tantalizing Greek flavors. 

You're sure to love these grain-free beef and chickpea muffins with feta all through - they look special and taste delish! 

The muffins are loosely based on a meat and spinach muffin from Well Fed, a Paleo cookbook. We had the author’s version for breakfast once, and my wheels started turning about how many places those muffins could go. 


The Healthy Breakfast BookIs breakfast monotonous at your house? Uninspiring? Or worse…processed? Get a little inspiration from The Healthy Breakfast Book, over 60 recipes plus efficiency tips and sample meal plans to make every breakfast nourishing. This recipe is just one of the great ideas to serve at a company brunch to help others fall in love with real food, too!Get the whole premium package with bonus mini eBooks and Kindle/Nook files right HERE. 

If you’re rolling your eyes right now, I know: it’s ironic that I added legumes and cheese to a Paleo dish. Eh. It’s still grain-free, at least. Winking smile 

Greek Main Dish Meat-and-Chickpea Muffins 
 

Print 
Prep time 
30 mins 
Cook time 
40 mins 
Total time 
1 hour 10 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
½ lb. ground beef 
1½ c. cooked chickpeas, divided 
½ tsp. salt 
¼ tsp. pepper 
½ c. chopped red pepper (optional) 
½ c. chopped onion (about 1 medium) 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
2-6 c. fresh spinach 
½-1 c. chopped broccoli, optional 
1 Tbs. lemon juice 
2 tsp. dried oregano 
½ c. feta cheese, plus more to top 
4 eggs 
chopped tomatoes for topping 
Instructions 
Brown the beef, seasoning with salt and pepper and adding onions and peppers for the last 5 minutes. 
While this is cooking, mash or food process 1 cup of the chickpeas (garbanzo beans). Also put muffin cup liners in your pan. You'll want them! Preheat the oven to 375F. 
When the onions are getting translucent, add the crushed garlic and fresh spinach, washed and roughly chopped, stirring over medium heat for 1-2 minutes until the spinach is all wilted. Turn off the heat. 
Alternate spinach methods: You could also very quickly steam the spinach separately OR use frozen spinach, about a pound package, but you'd need to thaw and thoroughly drain it first. 
Add chopped broccoli or any other veggies you want to sneak in there. 
In a medium sized bowl, beat the eggs, then mix in all the meat and veggie mixture, plus the additional half cup whole chickpeas, lemon juice, oregano, and feta cheese. If you added extra veggies, you may need an additional egg to compensate. 
Transfer to lined muffin cups with a heaping quarter cup measuring cup and gently press down with the bottom of the cup. 
Bake at 375F for 30-40 minutes or 15-20 for mini muffins. 
They're done when the egg is set. 
Serve with additional feta and chopped tomatoes on top. 
Makes 12 muffins or 24 mini muffins (or more if you add more veggies). 
Notes 
* Did you know you can freeze feta cheese? Don't ever let a container go bad again. Using it in muffins like these is a great way to get it out of the freezer and onto your plate. 
* The whole chickpeas can be like a treasure hunt. Who gets one? 😉 
* Need lower carb? Take the chickpeas right out and just use a whole pound of ground beef. 
* Inspired by Well Fed by Melissa Joulwan. 

Need a starter salad for the meal? Try this yummy homemade Greek dressing. 

Want more muffins to make a meal? You’ll laugh at our silly muffin meal. 

You're sure to love these grain-free beef and chickpea muffins with feta all through - they look special and taste delish! 


Pizza Muffins? 
I’ve had quite a bit of fun trying alternative versions of this muffin. I think I’ve perfected the pizza muffin – my husband said, “This may be the best breakfast I’ve ever had…it’s like eating pizza for breakfast, but without worrying about the grains!”

They have cheese right on top, and oh! So good! 

If you want that recipe, though, you’ll have to check out The Healthy Breakfast Book… 

You're sure to love these grain-free beef and chickpea muffins with feta all through - they look special and taste delish!Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Amazon from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. See my full disclosure statement here.

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 


START RECIPE

Easy Oven-Roasted Chicken {with Bonus Health Benefits} 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

26 
Easy Roasted Chicken, moist every time. Real food lunchmeat alternative with spices to keep your body healthy 

Before you throw me over the cliff for even suggesting you turn on the oven in August, give me a chance to explain. 

First, I live in Michigan. It’s hitting 50F and below here at night, so our A/C hasn’t even been on in weeks. 

Second, it’s chicken season. As in, chickens are kind of seasonal if you don’t get them from the store, and if you want to have a bird that is running around during the day and on your plates that evening – because I know that’s SO on your bucket list – you need to do the deed in the summer.

And last, it’s time to get ready for school and lunch packing, and there’s no better way to have leftover cold chicken than to roast the whole bird. 

CRTMS_0001_728x90_v1 
Want to learn to roast anything, be it chicken, beef or veggies? Then don’t miss this Craftsy course on seven different roasting techniques! Once you make a purchase on Craftsy you can always go back to the videos to pause and replay to make sure you get everything exactly right. Take everything at your own speed and take your cooking to the next level. 

Yes, grilled chicken is yummy, but roasted whole chickens have two benefits over grilled breasts: 

Expense. If you’re sourcing organic chicken, especially if you’re lucky enough to have found a local farmer raising pastured birds, your costs are likely pretty intense for boneless, skinless breasts. I didn’t buy any chicken without bones for years after our switch to real food because I couldn’t justify the cost without making homemade chicken stock to stretch our dollar. Which brings me to the second benefit: 
Chicken stock. Chicken bones are basically free, and if you save onion, carrot and celery ends for the mirepoix in your stock, you can make quart after quart of practically free, wholly nourishing real food. How can you pass that up? To get the “boneless, skinless” fix, I would occasionally buy split chicken breasts – still expensive – and hack the meat off the bones for stir fry or grilled tenders, then make stock afterward and get another few cups of chicken for soups. 
Is Roasting a Whole Chicken Difficult? 
Roast chicken is an iconic Sunday afternoon dinner, making it seem like roasted chicken is a difficult and special t, requiring much skill in the kitchen. 

I think the moms of the 1950s were just pulling the wool over their husband’s eyes and making it seem like roast chicken was a big deal, when really, they were enjoying a Sabbath of putting their feet up while the oven did all the work. 

Roasting a chicken is truly almost as convenient as chicken breasts, and it’s one of the easiest meals I ever plan (get the roasted chicken recipe HERE on Plan to Eat, 30 day free trial if you’re not already a member!). Preparing the bird takes about 5 minutes, and sides like baked potatoes and a quick veggies are so simple. There’s hardly any chopping or collecting of 5 million ingredients, no special blending tools to wash, no dough to roll 

Better than Lunchmeat 
Easy Roasted Chicken, moist every time. Real food lunchmeat alternative with spices to keep your body healthy 


If you’re convinced that processed lunchmeat, with its carcinogenic preservatives (for starters), is no good for your family – please tell me you are! – then you may be on the hunt for some other sandwich ideas (or non-sandwich main courses?) for lunch. 

Roasted chicken (or other meats) is the way to go. The flavor imparted by roasting, on the bone, cannot be compared to a stewed chicken or one in the crock pot, which are very moist and fine for soups and stews and casseroles, but pale and mushy in a wrap, salad or sandwich. 

Even baking chicken breasts does not have the flavor you’ll find from putting the whole bird in the oven, bones and all. And if you price compare with quality lunchmeat, nitrate and nitrite free, organic, etc., you’ll find that pound for pound, a pastured roasted chicken costs less, and you get all that stock, too 

Packing healthy lunches when you’re short on time and out of bread is mind-boggling. Is there such a thing as a lunch without a sandwich? Is it possible for it to be healthy too? 

The Healthy Lunch Box: Sandwich-free Secrets to Packing a Real Food Lunch is loaded with strategies to streamline your packing process, stock your pantry with emergency backups for your backups, and send healthy, delicious food in the lunch box, no matter how old your eater is. Read more and start packing healthier, processed-free lunches today. 
***BACK-TO-SCHOOL SALE!!! Through Labor Day 2015, use the code LUNCH35BDAY for 35% off the eBook and get packing real food for less! 

Friends with Benefits: Spices 
Easy Roasted Chicken, moist every time. Real food lunchmeat alternative with spices to keep your body healthy 

I add certain spices to my whole roasted chicken for additional health benefits beyond those of chicken and chicken stock, including: 

TURMERIC 
By far my new favorite spice, turmeric is packed with health benefits, including being highly anti-inflammatory. It also supports and detoxifies the liver, counteracts the carcinogens in grilled/charred meats, inhibits skin and breast cancer, and promotes healthy brain function, potentially reducing the risk of Alzheimer’s. It even may aid in fat metabolism and help in weight management. Always have black pepper in the same dish, as they complement each other, not just in taste, but in health benefits. (sources: 1, 2) 

Note: “Turmeric should not be used by people with gallstones or bile obstruction. Though turmeric is often used by pregnant women, it is important to consult with a doctor before doing so as turmeric can be a uterine stimulant.” Most sources say eating turmeric in pregnancy should be fine but no supplements. 
PAPRIKA
High in Vitamin C, which can help to ward off (or heal from) sunburn. See? I’m not crazy for doing this in August. Winking smile Also a good anti-inflammatory and may improve blood pressure, joint pain, circulation, and stomach acid balance. (source: 1, 2) 

THYME 
Has powerful antioxidant properties, as well as antimicrobial/antibacterial properties, good to keep in mind as we head into cold and flu season. Thyme also helps preserve food because of that, so your leftovers might even last longer. Thyme can aid in digestion, fight parasites, Alzheimer’s, stress and arthritis, and has a positive impact on the respiratory system. It’s even a very good source of calcium, iron, manganese, chromium, vitamin K and fiber. (sources: 1, 2, 3) 

Ready to roast some chicken with benefits? Here’s our family’s favorite no-fail method: 

Easy Roasted Chicken, moist every time. Real food lunchmeat alternative with spices to keep your body healthy 


Easy Oven-Roasted Chicken {with Bonus Health Benefits} 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
3 hours 
Total time 
3 hours 5 mins 
 
If you worry about overcooking your chicken and ending up with a $15 hunk of dry, tough mess, you can stop. Believe me, if anyone is going to mess up an expensive meal in a classic way, it's me, and I haven't done it yet. Invest the two bucks in a decent meat thermometer and use it. You'll be fine. 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Main Dish 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
2 tsp. paprika 
1 tsp.Real Salt 
1 tsp. dried minced onion + 1 Tbs. more 
1 tsp. thyme, ground or dried 
1 tsp. turmeric 
½ tsp. garlic powder 
¼ tsp. cayenne (red) pepper 
¼ tsp. black pepper 
1 whole chicken, about 4-5 pounds is good 

Instructions 
Preheat over to 325F. 
Mix spices in a small bowl first (less the 1 Tbs. minced onion). 
Place the whole chicken right into a deep covered baking dish. Season the bottom of the chicken, then turn over into your baking dish and season the breast side and inside cavity. 
Sprinkle minced onion on top (or use a real onion, but sometimes I don't want to get a knife and cutting board out). 
Cover the baking dish and bake 20-30 minutes per pound or until inner temp is 160F. 
Allow a 5-10 minute rest before carving, during which time the internal temperature should raise to 165F. 
Notes 
* It can be difficult to find a covered, huge baking dish, but Pampered Chef has a stoneware dish and Personal Creations has a huge enameled cast iron dish that fits two chickens. I've used both of those with great success, and also in this regular glass dish with a lid, I have more or less made the bird fit. 🙂 

These cast iron deep Dutch ovens are gorgeous too... 

* How to carve? Beats me...I just hack out what we need for dinner and use my fingers to pick the rest for leftovers. 

* Make it a meal by placing cut veggies around the chicken. 

* inspired by 100 Days Real Food and Tammy's Recipes. 

Other Roasting Options 
The KS community has come through with some other options to roast the chicken without turning the oven on, so I thought I’d make the post more useful by adding them right in: 

GRILL 
Snip the backbone out of the chicken (save for stock) and then press the chicken out flat (pressing down on the bird’s sternum until you hear it crack). Grill skin side up over indirect heat with an aluminum water-filled pan, legs pointed toward the coals/gas flame. [Indirect heat means to light one side of the grill and put the chicken on the other.] Monitor and grill to 150 or so [about an hour], then flip the bird, putting it directly over the heat until it reaches 160/165 so the skin crisps.Thanks to Michelle via Facebook!

A lot of people like to brine the chicken first, which entails soaking the whole bird in a salt water solution (Google for ideas). That will keep it moist! 

CROCK POT 
Kathleen K says in the comments: 

I don’t love using the oven. It is after all, August, and we won’t see 50 degrees for at least another 3 months! Instead, mine roast in the less-heat-generating crockpot! My favorite part of the crockpot is that I don’t have to clean it after roasting. I just add more liquid, throw the bones back in and forget it for a few hours (or overnight). (Then, after straining out the yummy broth, OF COURSE I clean it!) 

I’ve only ever cooked crockpot chicken covered in water, but I do see now that you can put a whole chicken in for 4 hours on high without any liquid. The finished texture will be a bit different from the oven, but I’m sure it’s wonderfully moist and delicious. 

Raw Chicken Clean Up? 
I know a lot of people get squeamish about raw chicken, and the bigger the chicken pieces, the bigger the mess. That’s why I like to contain the chicken right in the roasting dish. 

If you have any raw chicken juices that you had to pour into the sink, you can wash your sink down with very hot, soapy water, then spray with vinegar and hydrogen peroxide, in separate bottles, for extra bacterial precaution. I try to be aware of giving those substances time to kill the germs before doing something with raw veggies sitting in the sink.

Other Recipes to Use the Chicken 

Easy Roasted Chicken, moist every time. Real food lunchmeat alternative with spices to keep your body healthy 

Our family has gotten big enough (and our toddler is a total carnivore) that I often roast two birds at once to make sure our leftovers are sufficient. The picture above is of chicken number two, with very little seasoning so it’s more versatile in other recipes. 

I love having cooked chicken (roasted or stewed in a pot) frozen in 2-cup portions for many other meals, like the casseroles I retooled in Better Than a Box for make-from-scratch bliss. 

For example: 

Creamy Stovetop Stuffing Chicken Casserole (with no Stovetop) – free printable! 
Spicy Cheesy Chicken Dip (this one actually requires stewed chicken, but it’s so delish I have to list it anyway) 
Spicy Cheese Chicken Chip Dip via Kitchen Stewardship 

Slow Cooker Lentil Brown Rice Casserole 
Honey Dijon Chicken Casserole and one other 
10 Tips for better homemade chicken stock 
There’s a great skillet chicken dish in The Family Camping Handbook, available for free via the Kindle Owners Lending Library this summer only. 
California Chicken Wraps (or any cold sandwich or wrap with chicken, yum! My kids will just eat it with mustard to dip at school, lucky me…) 
Good old chicken noodle or chicken rice soup, of course 
I still need to try this one, but I pinned Creamy Turmeric No-Heat Vegetable Noodles a while ago, and it’s definitely time to try, perhaps with chicken on the top? 
What’s your favorite way to wrangle a whole chicken onto the table? What’s your biggest lunch packing challenge? 
Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Amazon and Craftsy from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. Plan to Eat is an August sponsor receiving their complementary mention in a post. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 


START RECIPE

Steak Fajita Soup Recipe and Health Benefits of Onions 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

102 
Steak fajita soup makes a nourishing and hearty dinner any night of the week. 

Fall is the perfect time to take a normal meal and stir it up in a big pot of soup, capturing the familiar flavors in comforting, immune-boosting broth. This Steak Fajita Soup is a great twist on a familiar dish. 

This is part of my Nourishing Soup Series. Check it out for more delicious soup ideas. 

Steak Fajita Soup is All About Toppings! 
This Steak Fajita Soup recipe is one of many where the soup is good, but the toppings make it amazing. I’m learning that serving a variety of fun toppers with a bowl of soup not only enhances the flavor of the soup but also increases the enjoyment of the eaters. It’s fun to add your own toppings: why do you think ice cream bars go over so well? 

Steak fajita soup makes a nourishing and hearty dinner any night of the week. 

One great topping for this soup is onions. The soup itself has onions (just like fajitas) but a few more to add on top won’t hurt. In fact, onions are packed with health benefits and this soup is a great way to enjoy them. 


Onions will give you the following al and health benefits: 

Anti-inflammatory 
Anti-bacterial 
Prevents constipation 
Increases blood circulation 
Rich in chromium, Vitamin C 
Fight these diseases and issues with onions: 

Prevents cancers 
Arthritis 
Fights infections, colds, fevers 
Asthma 
Heart health 
Osteoporosis 
May lower blood pressure and triglycerides 
Improves gastrointestinal health 
The Best Onions… 

Western Yellow, New York Bold, and Northern Red onions have the highest amount of healthy compounds to give you all the benefits listed above. In general, the stronger the onion, the healthier. More tears when cutting equals more protection against disease and infection. Also, the best benefits are received when onions are eaten raw. You just have to get the good information past the bad breath! 



As usual with my recipes, there are a ton of variations to experiment with, enough that you can practically make the recipe into about a dozen different meals. 

For example, when I ran this recipe through one last test on Monday, I had no beef in the house. Guess what? It’s a pretty doggone good chicken fajita soup too. Winking smileSteak fajita soup makes a nourishing and hearty dinner any night of the week. 

Steak Fajita Soup Recipe (or Chicken Fajita) 
 

Print 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
20 mins 
Total time 
35 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Serves: 6 
Ingredients 
4 cloves garlic, crushed 
2-4 Tbs. tallow, ghee, coconut oil or other fat 
2 medium onions, 1 diced, 1 sliced 
1 green pepper, sliced 
1 red (or other color) pepper, sliced 
1 Tbs. salt 
1 tsp. cumin 
1 tsp. Mexican oregano 
1 Tbs. taco seasoning 
2-3 c. cooked beef or chicken 
15 oz. diced tomatoes with juice 
optional: 2 Tbs. tomato paste or 1 cup tomato sauce 
2 c. cooked brown rice 
6 c. beef or chicken stock 
Toppings to serve with: 
sour cream 
guacamole or avocado slices 
chopped red onion 
sliced sweet white onion 
shredded cheese 
fresh or pickled jalapenos 
tortilla chips 
squeeze of lime 
fresh cilantro 

Instructions 
Crush your garlic and allow it to sit while you work to activate its health qualities. 
In a large pot, melt the fat over medium heat. Dice one of the onions and add it at this time. The other onion will be sliced and added into the broth, which will have more of a “boiled onion” taste and look more like fajitas because of the long slices. If that's not your thing, you could dice half or all of the second onion and put it in the saute. 
Slice the two peppers and add them to the saute, over medium heat until limp and/or browned, depending on your preference. Add the garlic, salt, cumin, oregano, and taco seasoning and stir for a minute. Add the cooked beef and stir another minute. 
Pour in all the tomatoes and optional sauce, the rice, the remaining onion, sliced, and the broth. You can use 4 cups broth for a very thick “stoup” or up to 8 cups to stretch the soup further. Eye it up.
Bring to a boil and it's ready to serve.
Choose some of the topping options for the presentation. I like to serve quesadillas to dip with this soup, and a side of homemade refried beans, salsa, guacamole, or Mexican beans and rice is a good fit for this meal. If you're not yet making homemade whole wheat tortillas, cornbread or tortilla chips are nice sides as well. 
Notes
I like to make stir fry the day before this recipe and make a double or triple batch of rice: then the soup comes together FAST. You can also leave the rice out and have it as an option to put under the soup. Your guests can choose to remain grain free that way. 
Possible additions: 
* chopped greens 
* ½ c. pureed squash or pumpkin (I've done it - blends right in, just like I said in the How to Use a Random Half Cup of Pumpkin post) 

Variations: 
* Use regular oregano instead of Mexican. 
* Add more peppers. 
* Use raw meat – just slice in thin strips or small chunks and add in with the spices, cooking on high until browned, then add broth. 
* Use uncooked rice instead, ½ cup dry, then cook 45 minutes until done. 
* Add 2 cups kidney or black beans for more bulk and protein. 


Steak fajita soup makes a nourishing and hearty dinner any night of the week.Disclosure: There are affiliate links in this post to Amazon and Tropical Traditions from which I will earn some commission if you make a purchase. The post is sponsored by Plan to Eat See my full disclosure statement here.

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup Recipe 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

71 
157 
All-day flavor can be yours in a flash with the Instant Pot. This smoky Mexican chicken soup recipe has authentic flavor that is perfect for weeknight dinners. 

What’s the big deal with the Instant Pot, you ? Why all the hype? 

I can tell you why I have learned to appreciate it: 

It’s quick! When I forget to meal plan or thaw meat, it’s a lifesaver at 4:00 p.m. I imagine it has even saved many a meal across the country at 5 p.m. or later.
It’s hands-free. Once all the ingredients are in the pot, I can walk away and it regulates the high vs. low heat so I don’t have to worry about boiling something over (which I do often), I don’t have to stir, and I don’t have to think. As a mom of 4…that’s kind of important to regaining sanity sometimes. (Funny sidenote: I went to type “retaining” there but apparently my subconscious told my fingers otherwise…I guess I’ll leave it!) 
It doesn’t burn the overnight steel cut oats. Every time I’ve tried oatmeal in a slow cooker, it hasn’t gone well, and the “nest a glass dish in some water inside the slow cooker” strategy would not even feed my hungry people one meal! 
Fewer dishes. Because you can saute right in the Instant Pot, you will never have to have a second pan to sear meat or caramelize onions. Slow cooker recipes always tick me off when they do that… 
Multi-function. It’s a slow cooker, too. 
Safe materials. It’s been a big deal off and on over the years about the safety of crockpot inserts. There have been questions of lead leaching (which I’m looking into for a future post actually), so it’s just doggone nice to have stainless steel as the surface in the IP. I don’t worry about it. Phew! 
More room on the stovetop. When things are really hopping in my kitchen, which can happen even without a big party, I’m pumped to have a “fifth burner” basically, because the Instant Pot can do everything a pot on the stove can do (and more). 
There are probably more benefits, and you’ll see some in the post about basic Instant Pot techniques like boiling eggs and cooking rice, but those are the biggies for me. 

It’s not without its drawbacks – last night for some weird reason it took 4 tries to get it to have pressure to cook a recipe. I’m still troubleshooting and hoping it was my fault! Answer coming in a future post in the Instant Post series… 

Make your Instant Pot work for you! 
The Instant Pot has gotten a lot of hype over the last couple years – for good reason. It really can do just about anything. 

Although it can seem a bit daunting to use at first, it really becomes quite simple once you give it a try. 

Use the techniques, tips and simple recipes from the Instant Pot Guidebook to get started, and before you know it, your Instant Pot will become indispensable! 

Get the Instant Pot Guidebook for FREE!

All-day flavor can be yours in a flash with the Instant Pot. This smoky Mexican chicken soup recipe has authentic flavor that is perfect for weeknight dinners. 

For today, I have another recipe for you, one that my husband made easily. It’s SUPER quick in the Instant Pot but also can totally be made in a slow cooker or on the stovetop. It’s a simple Mexican soup with a smoky twist that makes it a little more grown-up, in my opinion (and it’s inexpensive too). Enjoy! 

All-day flavor can be yours in a flash with the Instant Pot. This smoky Mexican chicken soup recipe has authentic flavor that is perfect for weeknight dinners. 

Recipe: Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup – make in the Instant Pot, Slow Cooker or Stovetop 
Instant Pot Smoky Mexican Chicken Soup 
 

Print
Prep time 
5 mins
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
35 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: Soup 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients 
1 Tbs. olive oil 
1 onion, diced 
1 green or red pepper, diced 
2 c. carrots, chopped/diced/shredded (whatever is easiest for you) 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
3 chicken breasts or thighs 
4 c. chicken stock 
2 (14 oz) cans diced tomatoes (or one home-canned quart) 
1 (7 oz) can tomato paste 
2 tsp. chili powder 
1 tsp. ground cumin 
1 tsp. ground coriander 
½ tsp. smoked paprika 
½ tsp. salt 
½ tsp. pepper 
Fresh limes for juice 
toppings: fresh cilantro, red or green onion, shredded cheese, avocado cubes, sour cream 
Instructions 
Instant Pot 
Turn the Instant Pot to Saute and heat the oil. 
Add the onion, peppers, and carrots and stir around for 5 minutes or so until they're starting to get translucent and fragrant. 
Add the garlic for about a minute, just until you can really smell it, stirring constantly. 
Add all remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the limes. 
Lock the lid in place and make sure the valve is closed. 
Hit Manual on high and set it for 5 minutes (it will take about 10 minutes for the pressure to build and then the 5 minute high pressure countdown will begin). If using frozen chicken breasts, add at least 10 minutes to the time. 
When the timer goes off, allow the pressure to naturally release for at least 10 minutes before initiating a quick release (flip the lever on the lid from seal to vent - be careful of the steam!). 
Check chicken for doneness (no pink!). It should be done, but if by chance it isn't, you can go for another 5 minutes on high pressure. It won't take as long to heat up, and then do a quick release and check again. 
Remove the chicken from the pot and shred with two forks. Return to the pot and stir. 
To serve, squeeze lime juice into each bowl or offer lime wedges at the table along with the optional toppings. 
Stove Top 
In a large pot over medium heat, heat the oil. 
Add the onion, peppers, and carrots and stir around for 5-10 minutes or so until they're starting to get translucent and fragrant. 
Add the garlic for about a minute, just until you can really smell it, stirring constantly. 
Add all remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the limes. 
Turn the heat to high with the lid on. 
Once a rolling boil is reached, turn the heat down to medium-low and cook for 15-20 minutes with the lid on. 
Check chicken for doneness (no pink!). 
Remove the chicken from the pot and cut into pieces with a knife and fork. Return to the pot and stir. 
To serve, squeeze lime juice into each bowl or offer lime wedges at the table along with the optional toppings. 
Notes 
**Can be made in a slow cooker as well – just toss in all the ingredients and cook on low for 8 hours or high for 4 hours. You'll lose a little flavor by not sauteeing the onions and garlic first, which you could do in a separate pan. 

Adapted from Play Paleo 


Traditional Cooking School Instant Pot Sourdough Cornbread Pressure Cooker Recipe 
My dear friend Wardee at Traditional Cooking School can do just about anything with her Instant Pot – cakes, bread, main dishes, veggies, even “stacking” multiple kinds of food at once! 

She’s offering a free sourdough cornbread Instant Pot recipe! 

This cornbread is delicious, nutritious, super easy to make, and it only needs 12 minutes of cook time. 

GET THE FREE INSTANT POT SOURDOUGH CORNBREAD RECIPE 
I’d love to see more real food Instant Pot recipes available on Pinterest – pin this one for me? 
All-day flavor can be yours in a flash with the Instant Pot. This smoky Mexican chicken soup recipe has authentic flavor that is perfect for weeknight dinners. 

More Instant Pot Treasures 
Cooking Real Food with an Instant Pot Series 

10 Basic Instant Pot Techniques (some may surprise you!) 
Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oats in the Instant Pot 
Simple Cauli Rice in the Instant Pot (no food processor needed!) 
Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Dinner 
Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken (can also be made in the slow cooker) 
…and more to come this week and next! 
FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

184 
2k 
You'll love the 5-minute prep - and the flavor of this Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken! Perfect for a Whole 30, Paleo or grain free diet. 

When you’re on a Whole30, you eat a lot of meat. Veggies too, TONS of veggies, which I love, but also definitely a lot of meat, because there’s no rice or bread to stretch the meal! Shredded chicken recipes like this one are a mainstay. 

I challenged my husband to learn to use the Instant Pot and collected a bunch of recipes for him, and as I mentioned when I shared the Instant Pot version of Paleo cauli-rice, I kept finding a lot of sub-par recipes out there! On days when he was taking over the cooking while I worked, I’d email them to my husband but end up either rewriting the instructions in the email or going to the kitchen to tell him what he should really do. 

You'll love the 5-minute prep - and the flavor of this Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken! Perfect for a Whole 30, Paleo or grain free diet. 

So I kinda need to share them with you guys after all that work, especially before the post we’re working up to: Easy Instant Pot Recipes Even a Man Can Make. Winking smile 

Today’s recipe is a simple and flexible Asian chicken that could totally be served over rice if you’re not grain-free. We just added steamed broccoli, a big salad, and a tray of roasted veggies to bulk up the meal. My kids enjoyed it and even took leftovers for lunch a few days. (The roasted veggie recipe is mine but it’s only in Plan to Eat – because I use that program a ton to keep my veggies organized when we do a Whole30!) 

Make your Instant Pot work for you! 
The Instant Pot has gotten a lot of hype over the last couple years – for good reason. It really can do just about anything. 

Although it can seem a bit daunting to use at first, it really becomes quite simple once you give it a try. 

Use the techniques, tips and simple recipes from the Instant Pot Guidebook to get started, and before you know it, your Instant Pot will become indispensable! 

Get the Instant Pot Guidebook for FREE! 

Shopping Notes and Frugal Tips 
You'll love the 5-minute prep - and the flavor of this Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken! Perfect for a Whole 30, Paleo or grain free diet.You can use either chicken breasts or thighs for this one – we had a random assortment of both in our fridge the day we made it, but neither was enough for a big batch to feed our family, so we just mixed them and that worked great too. I’d make it with thighs regularly simply because thighs are less expensive so I tend to save chicken breast splurges for things like chicken nuggets or a stir fry when you want the white meat to shine. For all my slow cooker or Instant Pot shredded chicken recipes, I go with thighs. 

Keep in mind that the kind of curry you use will kind of take over this dish. Most powdered curries are turmeric based and yellow in color. My husband has fallen in love with red curry at Thai restaurants this past year and we could never figure out why I couldn’t find “red curry powder” when I shopped spices! Apparently for Thai food it’s a curry paste, so I need to figure out how to source or make that myself, because although he likes the yellow curries I’ve found, he’s quite smitten with red. Winking smileTo keep your spices frugal, you can check out a local Asian market: I hear that’s a great place to get smaller amounts for inexpensive amounts. I am lucky enough to have a health food store that sells spices in small packages for typically 99c-$1.99 each, so I can try out flavors without investing a ton of cash. I also have ordered through Mountain Rose Herbs (Link Removed) online and their prices are amazing, but you do need to know how much you can use! I got maybe 4 or 8 ounces of dried cilantro and was a little shocked when the bag came and was as big as my head! 

Herbs are light. Order small! (And also – does anyone need any cilantro? I have 2 decades worth of it for ranch dressing mix in my basement now…) 

Boosting  
You'll love the 5-minute prep - and the flavor of this Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken! Perfect for a Whole 30, Paleo or grain free diet. 

The turmeric in this recipe already has a ton of health benefits, which I explored when we shared this amazing Turmeric Chicken Soup with Cabbage and Coconut, which we’ve eaten twice during the Whole30 and it’s so warming and lovely. 

We’ve also been boosting the  of a lot of soups and Instant Pot meals by adding Vital Proteins collagen (use the coupon KS10 for 10% off!) or gelatin (use the coupon KS10 for 10% off!) – you can pretty much put 2 scoops of either one into any recipe you’re making and it just disappears (visually and flavor-wise). The gelatin will “gel” up after things cool, which is no problem for soups (it liquefies again when heated) but might be weird if you want to eat something cold, like we do with shredded chicken dishes, so collagen is better for this one! You can use the coupon code VPKS10 for 10% off your order! 


The Recipe: Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken (Pressure Cooker Version) 
Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken 
 

Print 
Prep time 
5 mins 
Cook time 
35 mins 
Total time 
40 mins 
 
This recipe was adapted from a slow cooker recipe and worked great in the Instant Pot! Make it grain-free with lots of side veggies or serve over rice. So fast, easy, and delish! 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: main course 
Serves: 6 servings 
Ingredients 
1 can full fat coconut milk 
¼ c. lemon juice 
1 Tbs. curry powder 
1 tsp. turmeric 
½ tsp. salt 
about 4 lbs. chicken - breasts, thighs, or a combo (whatever you have) 
optional: ½-1 tsp. lemon zest 
Instructions 
Mix the coconut milk, lemon juice and spices together in a bowl or glass measuring cup. (Don't worry about incorporating that large chunk of coconut cream from the top of the can of coconut milk: just mix the liquidy part together.) 
Pour a little bit on the bottom of the Instant Pot. 
Add the chicken. 
Pour in the rest, including the coconut cream chunk if you've got one, on top of the chicken. 
Lock in the lid and close the valve. 
Turn the IP to poultry which should be 15 minutes at high pressure. 
If working with frozen chicken breasts, add 10 minutes to the cook time and you should be fine (although I haven't tested this yet). 
It will take about 20 minutes to get to pressure. 
After the 15 minute cook time, use the quick release by opening the valve. 
Test chicken for doneness by cutting open and observing the center (if you see any pink, turn the IP back on for another 5-10 minutes on manual high pressure - it will heat up much quicker because everything is already so hot). 
Use 2 forks to shred the chicken up in the pot (or remove to a plate if you're having trouble getting it all in the pot). 
Optional: Add ½-1 tsp. lemon zest after cooking. 
Serve with steamed or roasted veggies or over rice. 
Notes
* Recipe adapted from Pure and Simple Nourishment, which was a slow cooker recipe. You can absolutely toss everything in a slow cooker and do 4 hours on high or 8 on low with the same result!  
* If you'd like the sauce thicker, stir in a Tbs. or two of arrowroot starch after cooking. 

My husband’s been doing such a great job with this (I don’t know why I didn’t think of a post like the one I’m writing sooner…the delegation-of-dinner aspect has been worth it even if no one ever reads the post!). Winking smileYou'll love the 5-minute prep - and the flavor of this Instant Pot Curried Lemon Coconut Chicken! Perfect for a Whole 30, Paleo or grain free diet. 

The sheepish look on his face makes me laugh. Smile 

I hope you love this simple recipe! 

No Instant Pot yet? Remember that you can totally make this in a slow cooker too, AND you gotta  Amazon for a deal on the IP. It’s a game changer. 

Thank you for sharing with friends, reviewing in the comments with the “stars” feature, and following KS to get more real food recipes! 
Traditional Cooking School Instant Pot Sourdough Cornbread Pressure Cooker Recipe 
My dear friend Wardee at Traditional Cooking School can do just about anything with her Instant Pot – cakes, bread, main dishes, veggies, even “stacking” multiple kinds of food at once! 

She’s offering a free sourdough cornbread Instant Pot recipe! 

This cornbread is delicious, nutritious, super easy to make, and it only needs 12 minutes of cook time. 

GET THE FREE INSTANT POT SOURDOUGH CORNBREAD RECIPE 
More Instant Pot Treasures 
We’re doing a whole series!! 

Cooking Real Food with an Instant Pot Series 

10 Basic Instant Pot Techniques (some may surprised you!) 
Apple Cranberry Steel Cut Oats in the Instant Pot 
Simple Cauli Rice in the Instant Pot (no food processor needed!) 
Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Dinner 
…and more to come this week and next! 

Disclosure: Plan to Eat and Vital Proteins are receiving their complimentary mention as KS sponsors for March. 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Italian Lentil Dinner (Gluten-Free, One-Pot Meal!) 
Katie Kimball @ Kitchen Stewardship 

This post may contain affiliate links which won’t change your price but will share some commission. 

23 
262 
Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Meal - Gluten Free and so easy! It almost tastes like lasagna but in less than half the time and fuss. Lentils, rice, chicken, veggies - and only one dirty dish! 

One-pot meals are the BEST. If you battle Mt. Dishes like we do, you know the sigh of relief you feel when your meat, veggies, and starchy side can all fit in one container and done! 

This one has a ton of , is super frugal, and tastes a teeny bit like lasagna. For real. If you can get over the fact that there’s no pasta or ricotta… 

Back when it was just a slow cooker recipe before I tried it in the Instant Pot, I remember getting a comment from someone who thought it was more work than she was used to for a slow cooker. I think of that every time I make the dish because if you’re cooking with real food at all it’s about 30% of the work of most meals! Cut onions, pepper and carrots, and assemble. 

Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Meal - Gluten Free and so easy! It almost tastes like lasagna but in less than half the time and fuss. Lentils, rice, chicken, veggies - and only one dirty dish! 

Seriously, people. This woman must have used exclusively canned recipes with no whole foods. Whatevs. Trust me when I tell you this will go on your “easy meals” list. 

We definitely need a double batch for any chance at leftovers, and the Instant Pot will fit it! It’s pretty exciting to me how easily slow cooker recipes convert to the Instant Pot. 

Make your Instant Pot work for you! 
The Instant Pot has gotten a lot of hype over the last couple years – for good reason. It really can do just about anything. 

Although it can seem a bit daunting to use at first, it really becomes quite simple once you give it a try. 

Use the techniques, tips and simple recipes from the Instant Pot Guidebook to get started, and before you know it, your Instant Pot will become indispensable! 

Get the Instant Pot Guidebook for FREE! 


Pressure Cooker Easy Italian Lentil Dinner (Gluten-Free) 
Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Meal - Gluten Free and so easy! It almost tastes like lasagna but in less than half the time and fuss. Lentils, rice, chicken, veggies - and only one dirty dish! 

4.0 from 1 reviews 
Instant Pot Italian Lentil Dinner 
 

Print' 
Prep time 
15 mins 
Cook time 
30 mins 
Total time 
45 mins 
 
Author: Katie Kimball 
Recipe type: main dish 
Serves: 4 servings 
Ingredients 
¾ c. dry green lentils 
½ c. brown rice 
2½ c. homemade chicken stock (add another cup if not soaking) 
1 c. tomato sauce (8 oz. can) or 1 6-oz. can tomato paste + and extra ½ c. stock (or if you've got some spaghetti sauce open, just use a cup of that!) 
¾ c. chopped onion or ¼ c. dried minced onion 
1 c. chopped green and/or red pepper 
2 large or 3 medium carrots, chopped 
2 c. cooked, shredded chicken 
a few big handfuls of greens 
optional: other vegetables like broccoli, zucchini, green beans (frozen is fine!) 
3 tsp. Italian seasoning 
2 cloves crushed garlic or ½ tsp. garlic powder 
½ tsp. salt 
1 c. shredded mozzarella cheese 
Instructions 
Combine rice and lentils in the Instant Pot or a separate bowl and cover with water. 
Allow to soak overnight with the machine turned off (or in the bowl, covered). 
Note: If you're not soaking, add another cup of broth to the recipe. 
Drain the water off, then add all the other ingredients except the cheese to the Instant Pot and mix well. 
Set the IP to poultry which will cook at high pressure for 15 minutes (you could also do this manually). 
Click in the lid and make sure the valve is closed. 
When the time is up, use the quick release. After the pin goes down (usually about 2 minutes), give the whole appliance a little jiggle to release any potential pockets of steam trapped in the thick food. You can also do a natural release (ignore it for 15 minutes) and the food won't be overcooked. 
Add the cheese on top and wait 10 minutes on warm to melt it with the lid on or stir it in to melt almost immediately. 
Serve with optional warmed spaghetti sauce on top. 
Notes 
* Roast a chicken to easily have delicious shredded chicken on hand in the freezer and meals like this are a cinch! It's ok if the chicken is put in frozen, too, it will thaw as the meal cooks and you can just stir it in. You might add 2-3 minutes of cook time if the chicken is frozen. 
* Soaking the rice and lentils is not necessary for the cooking BUT it increases the nutrient benefit. More here and here. 
* No Instant Pot? First of all, get one. But while you're waiting, this recipe was originally done in the slow cooker. Super easy. 
* Make it meatless for Lent by omitting the chicken. Still filling and delicious. Use vegetable broth or water if you want totally vegetarian. 
Yum 
Traditional Cooking School Instant Pot Sourdough Cornbread Pressure Cooker Recipe 
My dear friend Wardee at Traditional Cooking School can do just about anything with her Instant Pot – cakes, bread, main dishes, veggies, even “stacking” multiple kinds of food at once! 

She’s offering a free sourdough cornbread Instant Pot recipe! 

This cornbread is delicious, nutritious, super easy to make, and it only needs 12 minutes of cook time. 

GET THE FREE INSTANT POT SOURDOUGH CORNBREAD RECIPE 

Pin it! 
Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Meal - Gluten Free and so easy! It almost tastes like lasagna but in less than half the time and fuss. Lentils, rice, chicken, veggies - and only one dirty dish! 

But…Isn’t Pressure Cooking Unhealthy? 
As much as I pride myself on trying to follow the research and not be taken in by one-source wonders, I admit that over the years I haven’t been able to re-do every piece of research I read. When I first read Nourishing Traditions, I remember that pressure cooking was damned, and that stayed in my head. My stovetop pressure cooker was never used again. 

Then I started reading of a shift, first from Food Renegade in this post with very convincing evidence. Most recently Wellness Mama, another trusted source for me, posted about the science behind pressure cooking. And finally my Instant Pot came out of its box…much to our breakfast delight! 

I wasn’t surprised that a couple readers ed this question on the steel cut oats recipe, since it became a pretty pervasive thought among those who read NT. I think the other gals did a great job covering the various angles of “hey this is not traditional!” and “won’t you lose nutrients cooking at high pressure?” I highly recommend reading their posts if you’re feeling unsure. 

Instant Pot Italian Lentil One-Pot Meal - Gluten Free and so easy! It almost tastes like lasagna but in less than half the time and fuss. Lentils, rice, chicken, veggies - and only one dirty dish! 


More goodness in the Instant Pot series here at KS, including: 

Apple Cranberry Instant Pot Steel Cut Oats 
2 more meat-based Whole30 compliant recipes 
how to make slow cooker recipes in the Instant Pot 
the gamification of cooking for men 
10 basic techniques for the Instant Pot 
The Mexican version of this very recipe 
Have you succumbed to the popularity of the Instant Pot yet? Did you ever do pressure cooking old-school on the stovetop?' 
Save 

FROM SITES WE LOVE 

This anti-inflammatory food pyramid will help you build the… 
Well + Good 

Homemade Corn Dogs 
Nourishing Joy 

Easiest Fermented Pickled Vegetables Ever {And How to Get… 
An Oregon Cottage 

Easy & Delicious Instant Drinking Vinegar Recipe - Ready… 
A Little Insanity 

After Sun Spray 
Nourishing Joy 

Raspberry Chocolate Brownie Smoothie Recipe 
5 Minutes For Mom 

What's so special about these toys? 
5 Minutes For Mom 

25 Christmas Morning Breakfast Recipes 
Nourishing Joy 
powered by PubExchange 


START RECIPE

Creamy Bacon Pasta 
Looking for a tasty one-pot pasta meal for an easy weeknight supper? Here it is! 

Ingredients:  
4 slices thick-sliced bacon, chopped 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
8 oz. (225g) penne 
3 cups (750 mL) chicken broth 
½ tsp (2 mL) salt 
¼ tsp (1 mL) freshly ground black pepper 
1 head broccoli chopped 
1 cup (250 mL) frozen peas 
¼ cup (60 mL) whipping cream (35%) 
¼ cup (60 mL) grated Parmesan cheese 

Time:  
Total time: 35 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 4 

START RECIPE


Sweet-Sour Coleslaw 
Just like grandma used to make! 

Ingredients:  
1½ pounds cabbage, shredded 1/8 thick 
2/3 cup (150 mL) sugar 
1/3 cup (75 mL) white vinegar 
1 tsp (5 mL)  
1 cup (250 mL) 35% whipping cream 
salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste 

Time:  
Total time: 62 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 10-12 

Method:  
Place sliced / shredded cabbage in a large bowl. 
Mix sugar, vinegar, and salt in a small bowl. 
Add to cabbage and toss to coat. 
Add cream and toss it again. 
Cover and refrigerate at least 30 minutes before serving. 
Season with salt and pepper: serve. 


START RECIPE


Stout Meatballs with Beer BBQ Sauce 
This is perfect for the big game! What could be better than beef ’n’ beer. 

Ingredients:  
For the meatballs: 
½ lb (250g) ground beef 
½ lb (250g) ground pork 
1 tsp (5 mL) garlic powder 
1 tsp (5 mL) onion powder 
1/4 tsp (1 mL) cumin 
1/4 tsp (1 mL) cayenne pepper 
1/2 tsp (2 mL) salt 
1 egg 
1/4 cup (60 ml) breadcrumbs 
1/4 cup (60 mL) stout beer 

For the sauce: 
1 Tbsp (15 mL) olive oil 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
1 cup (250 mL) stout 
1/3 cup (75 mL) brown sugar 
3 Tbsp (45 ml) tomato paste 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) Worcestershire sauce 
1/3 cup (75 mL) soy sauce 
2 tsp (10 mL) smoked paprika 
1 tsp (5 mL) onion powder 
1 1/2 tsp (7 mL) Sriracha 

Time:  
Total time: 75 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 28 Meatballs 

Method:  
In a large bowl add all the meatball ingredients, mix with your hands until just combined. Don't overmix! Place in the fridge to chill for 1 hour or up to 1 day. 
While chilling make the sauce.In a pot over medium high heat, add the oil and the garlic: stir and fry for about 30 seconds. 
Add all of the remaining sauce ingredients: stir and simmer until thickened and reduced, about 15 minutes. 

Preheat oven to 400ºF (200ºC).Using a scoop and your hands, form meat balls same size as a pin-pong ball. 
Place on a parchment paper covered cookie sheet. Cook in the preheated oven for 15 minutes. 
Heat 2 Tbsp olive oil in a skillet over medium high heat until hot. 
Add the partially cooked meat balls, and cook until they start to brown. 
Reduce heat and add the sauce, cooking at a simmer until meatballs are glazed and sauce is very thick. 

Makes about 28 meatballs 


START RECIPE

Savoury Stuffed Mushrooms 
This is a fantastic appetiser for a romantic dinner party! 

Ingredients:  
6 large fresh mushrooms 
4½ tsp (22 mL) finely chopped green pepper 
4½ tsp (22 mL) finely chopped onion 
1 Tbsp (15 mL) butter 
3/4 cup (175 mL) day-old bread cut into small cubes 
Pinch salt 
Pinch pepper 
Pinch cayenne pepper 

Time:  
Prep time: 15 Min, 
Cook time: 15 Min, 
Total time: 39 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 6 

Method:  
Pre-heat oven to 350°F (180ºC) 
Remove stems from mushrooms, set caps aside and finely chop the stems . 
In a skillet, sauté stems, green pepper and onion in butter until tender. 
Remove from the heat, and stir in the cayenne, bread, salt, and pepper. 

Stuff mixture into mushroom caps. 
Place on a baking tray and bake, uncovered for 15 minutes or until stuffing is lightly browned. 


START RECIPE

Soy Ginger Dipping Sauce 
The perfect dipping sauce for Tempura, Potstickers, Spring Rolls... and just about anything! 

Ingredients:  
½ cup (125 mL) soy sauce 
¼ cup (60 mL) rice wine vinegar 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) finely grated ginger 
1 chopped green onion 
2 cloves garlic minced 
2 tsp (10 mL) sugar 
1 tsp (5 mL) sesame oil 

Time:  
Prep time: 15 Min, 
Total time: 15 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 1cup 

Method:  
Add all of the ingredients to a bowl and whisk well to combine. Serve as a dipping sauce for tempura. 

Tags: ginger  soy sauce 



START RECIPE

Shrimp Tempura 
Light airy, crispy tempura batter recipe for shrimp, vegetables... anything you want to batter and fry! 
The secret is in the Vodka!  
No you won't taste the Vodka... & you won't get drunk, not even a little. 

Ingredients:  
2 Qt (2L) vegetable oil 
1½ Lbs (750g) 8-12 count shrimp 
1½ cups (375 mL) all-purpose flour 
½ cup (125 mL) cornstarch (cornflour in the UK) 
1 large egg 
1 cup (250 mL) vodka 
1 cup (250 mL) soda water (club soda, seltzer) 
sea salt 

Time:  
Prep time: 15 Min, 
Cook time: 2 Min, 
Total time: 17 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 4 

Method:  
Pre-heat oven to 200ºF (100ºC). 

In a Dutch oven with a candy / oil thermometer, heat oil over high heat to 385ºF (195ºC). 
While oil heats prep the shrimp (peel, devein, and score underside) . Whisk together flour and cornstarch in large bowl. 
Whisk together egg, vodka and soda water. 

When oil hits 385ºF (195ºC), gently whisk liquid mixture into flour mixture until just combined. 

Dip shrimp in batter 1 at a time, allowing excess to drip off, and carefully place in oil. Repeat with 8-10 shrimp at a time. 
Fry until light brown, 2 to 3 minutes. 
Using slotted spoon or spider, transfer shrimp to cooling rack over a baking sheet and sprinkle with salt. 
Place in oven, while you fry the rest 
Return oil to temp, and repeat with remaining shrimp. 

Serve immediately with our Soy-Ginger Dipping Sauce recipe. 

Tags: shrimp  vodka  seafood  shellfish 



START RECIPE

Oven Fried Onion Rings 
Ok so 'Oven-Fried' doesn't really mean 'healthy'... 
These are really easy to make and clean up is easier than a deep fryer.  
The secret ingredients are Panko & Potato chips... yeah potato chips. 

Ingredients:  
½ cup (125 mL) flour 
1 large egg 
½ cup (125 mL) buttermilk (or substitute) 
¼ tsp (1 mL) cayenne pepper 
Salt & pepper to taste 
¼ cup (60 mL) panko 
4 cups thick potato chips 
2 large onions cut into thick rings 
6 Tbsp (90 mL) vegetable oil 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 14 Min, 
Total time: 34 Min 
Yield:  
Makes: 24-ish 

Method:  
Pre-heat oven to 450ºF (230ºC). 

Prep the onions by cutting thick slices and pulling apart the rings. 
(use the small centre rings in another recipe) 

Put 1/4 cup flour in shallow baking dish. 
egg, buttermilk, 1/4 cup flour, cayenne, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper together then pour into a second shallow dish. 

Whiz chips in food processor until finely ground and mix in 3rd shallow dish with Panko. 
One at a time, dredge each onion ring in flour, then dip in buttermilk mixture, shake of excess, then cover in crumb coating. 
Transfer to a plate and repeat with remaining rings. 
Pour 3 Tbsp oil onto a rimmed baking sheet and heat in oven until just smoking. 
Tilt heated sheet to coat evenly with oil, then arrange onion rings on sheet. 
Bake for 7 minutes, then flip onion rings over and bake another 7 minutes, until golden brown on both sides. 
Transfer onion rings to a cooling rack to drain oil briefly. Serve immediately.  
Makes 24-ish rings 

Tags: panko  buttermilk  cayenne 


START RECIPE

Herbed Home Fries 
MMM - a weekend morning favourite! 
You can save time by boiling the potatoes a day or two ahead. 

Ingredients:  
2 baking potatoes, 2 lb/1 kg 
2 tbsp (30 mL) butter 
1 onion, diced 
1 tbsp (15 mL) chopped fresh rosemary 
3/4 tsp (4 mL) salt 
3/4 tsp (4 mL) pepper 
3/4 tsp (4 mL) sweet paprika 
1/4 cup (60 mL) whipping cream (35%) 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 25 Min, 
Total time: 45 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 4 

Method:  
Cook potatoes In a covered pot of boiling salted water until fork tender. 
Drain and cool to room temp: then cover and refrigerate for 4 hours, or up to 2 days. 
Cut potatoes into 1/2 (1 cm) cubes. In large heavy pan, melt butter over medium heat: fry diced onion, stirring occasionally until softened. 
Stir in potatoes, rosemary, paprika, salt, and pepper. Fry, without stirring, until lightly browned on bottom. 
Turn home fries over and stir, then drizzle with cream. Again: cook without stirring, until lightly browned on bottom. 
Stir again: then cook until most of the cream is absorbed and potatoes are crispy and browned. 

Tags: potatoes  cream 


START RECIPE

Quick Pickled Hot Peppers 
This is a quick fridge pickle that's easy to prepare and ready to eat in a couple of months. 
These are great in salads, or with a sandwich. 

Ingredients:  
1 Lb (500g) or enough peppers to fill a 1.5L wide mouth Mason jar 
some little carrots 
2.5 cups (625 mL) of water 
2.5 cups (625 mL) of vinegar (mixed white with rice & cider) 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) of peppercorns 
2 Bay Leaves 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) coriander 
4 cloves garlic 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) dried chopped onion 
3 Tbsp (45 mL) sugar 
3 Tbsp (45 mL) salt 

Time:  
time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 12 Min, 
Total time: 32 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 1 Jar 



START RECIPE

Chipotle Popcorn Chicken 
Fire up the tailgate party, we've got the perfect big game treat!  
Buttermilk and chipotle give these succulent on the inside and crispy on the outside chicken morsels a punch you'll love! 

Ingredients:  
2 chicken breasts 
1 cup (250 mL) buttermilk (or substitute) 
3-4 canned chipotles in adobo sauce 
2 cups (500 mL) all purpose flour 
Salt & pepper 
1 bunch cilantro 
2L vegetable oil 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Marinate time: Overnight 
Cook time: 3 Min, 

Yield: 
Serves: 4 

Method:  
Cut chicken breasts into bite sized chunks. Purée chipotles & buttermilk together in a food processor. 
Combine chicken and buttermilk / chipotle mixture.  
Cover and refrigerate overnight. 
Heat deep fryer to 350ºF (180ºC) 
Dredge chicken in flour seasoned with salt & pepper and fry in 350ºF (180ºC) oil.  
Until golden brown about 3 minutes. 
Once out of fryer, season with salt, pepper and chopped cilantro. 

Tags: buttermilk  chipotle  cilantro 


START RECIPE

Asparagus Gruyere Tart 
This makes a great elegant appetiser for your next dinner party. 

Ingredients:  
1 bunch (1 lb/500 g) asparagus, trimmed 
½ pkg (225 g) puff pastry, thawed 
1 Tbsp (15 mL) Dijon mustard 
¾ cup (175 mL) grated Gruyere cheese 
½ tsp (2 mL) fresh ground pepper 
1 egg 
1 Tbsp (15 mL) milk 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 18 Min, 
Total time: 38 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 6 

Method:  
Pre-heat oven to: 450°F (230°C) 
Line baking sheet with parchment paper. In a steamer or rack in saucepan, cover and steam asparagus until tender-crisp, 3 minutes. 
Chill in ice water bath and pat dry. Unroll pastry sheet onto prepared pan. 
Spread evenly with mustard, leaving 1 (2.5 cm) border. 
Then arrange asparagus by alternating ends on top of mustard: sprinkle with cheese and pepper. 
Make an egg wash by beating egg with milk: lightly brush over pastry border. 
Bake, rotating pan halfway through, until puffed and golden and cheese is bubbly, about 18 minutes. 
Cut each into 6 pieces: serve warm or cool. 
Makes one 10 square tart. Recipe can easily be doubled. 

Tags: puff pastry 


START RECIPE

Oven Fried Chicken 
Ok so these are 'oven fried' that doesn't mean 'diet'... 
If you want can you can very easily leave out the grated cheese, and cut back on the garlic - but you definitely should use the Panko, as it gives the fantastic crunch to this chicken. 

Ingredients:  
¾ cup (175 mL) unsalted butter 
1-2 garlic cloves, minced 
1 cup (250 mL) panko 
1 cup (250 mL) bread crumbs 
? cup (150 mL) freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano 
2 tsp (10 mL) coarse salt 
2 tsp (10mL) freshly ground black pepper 
One 3½ pound chicken, cut up or 10 pieces thighs &/or legs 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 60 Min, 
Total time: 80 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 4-6 

Method:  
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180ºC) 
Combine the butter and garlic in a small saucepan, and heat just to melt the butter. 
Remove from heat and allow to coolish while you prep the rest. 
Grate the cheese, and mix with the panko, bread crumbs, salt, and pepper in a shallow baking pan. 
Pour the cooled butter into another baking pan. ( any shallow dish that you can roll the chicken around in will work). 
Dip each chicken piece into the melted garlic butter, then roll in the bread crumb mixture. 
Turn until coated on all sides. 
Arrange the chicken in one layer on a baking sheet. 
Bake until lightly browned and cooked through, 50 to 60 minutes. 

Tags: chicken  panko 


START RECIPE

Weeknight Chicken Cacciatore  
This is a super fast weeknight one-pot chicken meal that your family will love! 

Ingredients:  
1 Tbsp (15 mL) olive oil (or bacon fat) 
6-8 chicken thighs, 
salt & pepper to taste 
3 cups (750 mL) sliced mushrooms 
1 large red & green sweet pepper, cut into strips 
1 rib finely chopped celery 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 cup (125 ml) dry white wine or lillet 
1 - 28oz (796 mL) can diced tomatoes 
1 sliced white onion 
1 tsp (5 mL) dried oregano 
1 whole hot pepper 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) balsamic vinegar 
10 pitted Kalamata olives 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 35 Min, 
Total time: 55 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 6 

Method:  
Heat oil a large skillet heat over medium heat. 
Season chicken thighs lightly with salt and cracked black pepper. 
Brown chicken thighs in hot oil on all sides, then remove and set aside. 
Add mushrooms, sweet pepper, and celery to skillet: saut? until soft. 
Add wine and scrape up the fond from the pan bottom. 
Add tomatoes, onions, garlic, oregano, and hot pepper stirring to combine. 
Return chicken to skillet, cover and cook about 20 minutes or until chicken is done (180º F). 
Stir in balsamic vinegar. 
Sprinkle with olives before serving. 

Tags: chicken  one pot  one dish  meal  weeknight 


START RECIPE

Chipotle Popcorn Chicken 
Fire up the tailgate party, we've got the perfect big game treat!  
Buttermilk and chipotle give these succulent on the inside and crispy on the outside chicken morsels a punch you'll love! 

Ingredients:  
2 chicken breasts 
1 cup (250 mL) buttermilk (or substitute) 
3-4 canned chipotles in adobo sauce 
2 cups (500 mL) all purpose flour 
Salt & pepper 
1 bunch cilantro 
2L vegetable oil 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Marinate time: Overnight 
Cook time: 3 Min, 

Yield:  
Serves: 4 

Method:  
Cut chicken breasts into bite sized chunks. Purée chipotles & buttermilk together in a food processor. 
Combine chicken and buttermilk / chipotle mixture.  
Cover and refrigerate overnight. 
Heat deep fryer to 350ºF (180ºC) 
Dredge chicken in flour seasoned with salt & pepper and fry in 350ºF (180ºC) oil.  
Until golden brown about 3 minutes. 
Once out of fryer, season with salt, pepper and chopped cilantro. 

Tags: buttermilk  chipotle  cilantro 

START RECIPE

Spicy Peanut Chicken Stew 
This is reminiscent of a spicy North African peanut stew - we dial back the chiles a little bit... 
But feel free to add as much heat as you like! 

Ingredients:  
1 cup (250mL) chicken stock 
½ cup (125 mL) peanut butter 
1 onion, thinly sliced 
2 tbsp (30 mL) oil 
2 tbsp (30 mL) finely chopped ginger 
½ tsp (2 mL) cayenne pepper 
½ tsp (2 mL) black pepper 
1 tsp (5 mL) ground coriander seed 
1 tsp (5 mL) ground cumin 
1-3 scotch bonnet chilis 
1 bay leaf 
1 cup (250 mL) chopped tomatoes 
800g chicken thighs, skinned 
2 sweet potatoes , cut into chunks 
1 red pepper , deseeded and cut into chunks
handful of cilantro, chopped

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 70 Min, 
Total time: 90 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 6 

Method:  
Heat a large Dutch oven and fry the onions in the oil for 5 mins to soften. 
Add the ginger, cayenne, black pepper, coriander, cumin, chillies & bay leaf and cook, stirring, for 2 mins. 
Stir in the tomatoes, stock, and peanut butter then add in the chicken pieces. 
Put a lid on the pan and leave to simmer for 30 mins, stirring frequently to make sure the peanut butter doesn't stick to the base of the pan. 
Stir in the sweet potatoes, peppers and cilantro, then cook for 30 mins more. 
Serve sprinkled with the reserved cilantro, over rice. 

START RECIPE


Chicken and Couscous One-Pot Meal 
Flavourful and fast one-pot meal, that your family will love! 

Ingredients:  
8 skin on, bone-in chicken thighs 
2 tsp (10 mL) turmeric 
1 tbsp (15 mL) garam masala 
2 tbsp (30 mL) olive oil 
2 onions, finely sliced 
3 garlic cloves, sliced 
2 cups (500 ml) chicken stock 
large handful whole green olives 
zest and juice 
1 lemon 
1 cup (250 mL) couscous 
small bunch cilantro or parsley, chopped 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 55 Min, 
Total time: 75 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 6-8 

Method:  
Mix the turmeric, gram masala & salt. Sprinkle half of the spices over the chicken thighs. 
Heat 1 tbsp oil in a large sauté pan with a lid. 
Fry chicken, skin-side down, until golden brown, turn over, then cook for 2 mins before removing from the pan. 
Fry the onions and garlic until golden. Stir in the rest of the spices, & cook for another minute. 
Pour over the chicken stock and scatter in the olives. 
Bring to a boil, then turn down the heat, and put the chicken back in the pan. 
Cover with a lid, and simmer gently for 35-40 mins until the chicken is tender. 
Take the pan off the heat and remove the chicken onto a plate and keep warm. 
Stir the lemon juice and couscous into the pan (top up with enough boiling water just to cover the couscous if you need to). 
Place the lid back on and let stand for 5 mins until the couscous is cooked through. 
Fluff through half the parsley and the lemon zest, place the chicken on top and scatter with the rest of the parsley and zest before serving. 


START RECIPE

Biscuit Topped Chicken Pot Pie 
Chicken and biscuits, with a white sauce gravy - on the table in no time! 
This one pot dinner is a snap to make, and there will be no leftovers. 

Ingredients:  
Biscuits: 
2 cups (500 mL) all-purpose flour 
2 tsp (10 mL) sugar 
2 tsp (10 mL) baking powder 
tsp (2 mL) sea salt 
1½ cups (375 mL) whipping cream (35%) 

Filling: 
boneless, chicken thighs 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) butter 
1 medium onion, minced 
1 rib celery, sliced thin 
¼ cup (60 mL) all-purpose flour 
¼ cup Lillet (or dry vermouth / dry white wine) 
2 cups (500 mL) low-sodium chicken broth 
½ cup (125 mL) whipping cream (35%) 
2 tsp (10 mL) minced fresh thyme leaves 
2 cups (500 mL) frozen mixed vegetables 

Time:  
Prep time: 45 Min, 
Cook time: 45 Min, 
Total time: 90 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 4-6 

Method:  
First the biscuits: pre heat the oven to 450ºF (230ºC). 
Whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Stir in the cream just until a dough forms. 
Turn the dough out onto a floured work surface and knead 5-6 times just until smooth. 
Form into a 3/4”-thick round and cut into 8 wedges using a Pizza cutter. 
Cook the biscuits on a parchment paper-lined baking sheet, until golden brown. 15 - 20 minutes. 

While the biscuits are baking… Season the chicken with salt and pepper. Melt 2 Tbsp of butter in a 12” pan over medium heat. 
Brown the chicken on both sides, in two batches. Transfer the chicken to a clean plate. 
Add the onion, celery, salt to the same pan and cook until the onion is softened. Stir in the flour and cook, stirring constantly for about 1 minute. 
Pour in the Lillet and cook stirring until evaporated. Slowly whisk in the broth, cream, and thyme: bring to a simmer. 
Place the chicken back into the pan: cover then cook over medium heat until chicken registers 160ºF, 8 to 10 minutes. 
Pour in the frozen vegetables and simmer until heated through. 
Place the cooked biscuits on top just before serving. 

Tags: wine  cream 

START RECIPE

Caribbean Jerk Seasoning Rub 
People immediately think Hot & Spicy when they think Jamaican jerk rub. That's not always the case, most chefs pride themselves on a flavourful jerk spice mix with very little heat. Too many hot peppers m all of the other flavours... So we give you this jerk rub with no peppers: try it out and add the heat later if you need it. 

Ingredients:  
2 Tbsp (30 mL) brown sugar 
2½ tsp (12 mL) salt 
2 tsp (10 mL) allspice 
1 tsp (5 mL) cayenne pepper 
1 tsp (5 mL) freshly ground black pepper 
1 tsp (5 mL) onion powder 
½ tsp (2 mL) ground cinnamon 
½ tsp (2 mL) garlic powder 
¼ tsp (1 mL) ground cumin 
¼ tsp (1 mL) dried thyme 

Time:  
Prep time: 15 Min, 
Total time: 15 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 12 

Method:  
Mix all ingredients and store in a cool, dark place. Use within three months. 
Great on: Chicken, pork or fish. 
Just remember to grill over indirect heat, low and slow with a little smoke. 

Tags: allspice  cumin  cinnamon  cayenne 


START RECIPE

Chicken & Rice One-Pot Meal 
Chicken and rice in one pot - easy, fast, tasty weeknight meal! 

Ingredients:  
1 tablespoon (15 mL) olive oil 
2¼ pounds (1.1 Kg) chicken thighs, cut into 2 pieces 
4 Anaheim or poblano chile peppers, chopped 
1 small onion, chopped 
1 tablespoon (15 mL) dried oregano, crushed 
1 teaspoon (5 mL) sweet paprika 
1 teaspoon (5 mL) salt 
1 can (398 mL) tomato sauce 
2 tomatos, chopped 
1 can (1cup) pimientos, rinsed 
Handfull stuffed green olives 
2 tablespoons (30 mL) capers, rinsed 
2 cups (500 mL) water 
4 cups (1L) chicken stock 
2½ cups (625 mL) rice 

Time:  
Prep time: 25 Min, 
Cook time: 50 Min, 
Total time: 75 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 6 

Method:  
Heat oil in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 
Add chicken, chiles, onion, oregano, paprika and salt and cook, stirring, until the onions have softened, 3 to 5 minutes. 
Add tomato sauce, tomatoes, pimientos, olives, capers, water, and stock: bring to a boil. 
Stir in rice: return to a boil then reduce heat to a simmer and cook, uncovered, until the sauce is thick, the rice is tender and the chicken is cooked through, 35 to 45 minutes. 



START RECIPE

Baked Buffalo Chicken Wings 
The most flavourful wings you'll ever eat - and they are baked... 
So you could almost say they are good for you. 

Ingredients:  
3 pounds (about 1.5 kg) chicken wings, split at the joints 
2 stalks celery, cut into thirds 
2 carrots, cut in quarters 
2 bay leaves 
1 cup (250 mL) chicken broth 
1 cup (250 mL) Frank's RedHot sauce 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) paprika 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) unsalted butter 
1 Tbsp (15 mL) honey 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 35 Min, 
Total time: 55 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 4 

Method:  
Preheat the oven to 425ºF (220ºC) 
Put the chicken wings, celery, carrot, bay leaves, chicken broth, hot sauce, paprika, butter, honey and 1/2 cup water in a deep skillet. 
Bring to a simmer over medium heat, until the chicken is almost cooked through, about 18 minutes. 
Transfer the wings to a baking sheet and arrange in a single layer: reserve the sauce in the skillet. 
Bake the wings, turning once, until the skin is golden and crisp, 30 to 35 minutes. 
Meanwhile, simmer the reserved sauce over medium-low heat until slightly thickened, about 15 minutes. 
Discard the celery, carrot and bay leaves. Reserve one-quarter of the sauce for serving. 
Return the wings to the skillet and toss with the remaining sauce. 

Try our Creamy Blue Cheese Dip with this recipe. 


START RECIPE

Lemon Thyme and White Wine Chicken 
Who says a weeknight one-pot meal can’t be elegant? 
This one tastes like you slaved all day... but you didn’t. 

Ingredients:  
4 chicken thighs, skin on and bone in 
1 yellow onion, quartered 
½ lemon, sliced 
3 cloves garlic, unpeeled 
5 sprigs thyme 
? cup (30ml) olive oil 
½ cup (125ml) white wine 
¾ cup (175ml) chicken stock 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 40 Min, 
Total time: 60 Min 

Yield:  
Serves: 4 

Method:  
Preheat oven to 355°F (180°C). 
Place the chicken, onion, lemon, garlic, thyme and oil in a bowl and toss to combine. 
Heat a large heavy-based dutch oven or pan over high heat. 
Cook the chicken, onion, lemon, garlic and thyme, for 3--4 minutes each side or until golden. 
Add the wine to the pan and cook for 30 seconds, scraping the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon.
Add the stock and bring to the boil. 
Roast in the oven for 30--35 minutes or until the chicken is cooked through. 
Serve with Rice, couscous, or roasted veg. 

Tags: wine 



START RECIPE

Oat 'n' Toffee Grahams Squares 
This squares recipe is a hit around the test kitchen! Chewy toffee and chocolate topping... so much to love. 

Ingredients:  
24 whole graham crackers 
1½ cups (375 mL) rolled oats 
¾ cup (175 mL) granulated sugar 
¾ cup (175 mL) packed brown sugar 
3 tablespoons (45 mL) all-purpose flour 
2/3 cup (150 mL) butter, melted 
1 egg 
1 teaspoon (5 mL) pure vanilla extract 
2 cups (500 mL) semi-sweet chocolate chips 
½ cup (125 mL) chopped pecans 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 20 Min, 
Total time: 40 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 24 

Method:  
Preheat oven to 350º F (180º C). 
Arrange graham crackers in a single layer in a 15 x 10 baking pan that's been lined with foil. In a large bowl combine the oats, sugars, and flour. 
Stir in melted butter, egg, and vanilla until combined. 
Spoon mixture over graham crackers and spread to evenly cover graham crackers. 
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until oat mixture bubbles and is lightly browned on top. 
Remove from oven and sprinkle chocolate pieces over top. 
Return to oven for about 1 minute to melt the chocolate. 
Spread melted chocolate over top to cover, then sprinkle with pecans. 
Cool in pan on a wire rack. 
Cut or break into pieces. 

Tags: cookies  squares  snacks  chocolate 


START RECIPE

Browned Butter Chocolate Chip Cookies 
The deep nutty flavour from the browned butter, adds a depth to this chocolate chip cookie recipe. You have to make them, we understand that they are Santa's favourite cookies! 

Ingredients:  
1 cup (250 mL) unsalted butter 
2¼ cups (560 mL) bread flour 
1 tsp (5 mL) salt 
1 tsp (5 mL) baking soda 
¼ cup (50 mL) sugar 
1¼ cups (310 mL) brown sugar 
1 egg 
1 egg yolk 
2 tbsp (30 mL) milk 
1 tbsp (15 mL) pure vanilla extract 
¾ cup (175 mL) semisweet chocolate chips 
¾ cup (175 mL) dark chocolate chunks 

Time:  
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 12 Min, 
Total time: 32 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 40 

Method:  
Preheat oven to 375°F (190°C). 
Melt butter in a small heavy-bottomed pan over medium heat. 
Cook, stirring constantly until browned, about five minutes. 
When the butter begins to brown you'll notice a change in smell and the butter will darken in colour. 
Set aside and cool. 
Sift together the flour, salt, and baking soda. 
Mix together the white sugar and brown sugar, then pour in the cooled browned butter and beat together until creamy. 
Beat the egg, egg yolk, milk and vanilla extract, until well combined. 
Slowly incorporate the flour mixture until combined. 
Stir in all of the chocolate chips 
Cover bowl with plastic wrap and chill the dough for a at least one hour. 
When chilled scoop approximately 1 tbsp of dough and roll into a ball. 
Place onto baking sheets. 
Bake for 10-12 minutes or until golden brown. 
Cool completely on wire racks. 

Tags: chocolate chips 


START RECIPE

Palmiers 'Cookies' 
Puff pastry and sugar is all you'll need for some of the best treats ever!  
Some people call these Elephant Ears - We can see why. 

Ingredients: 
2 cups (500 mL) sugar 
¼ tsp (1 mL) salt 
1 Pkg (500g / 1 lb / 2 sheets) frozen puff pastry, thawed 
2 Tbsp (30 mL) ground cinnamon - Optional* 

Time: 
Prep time: 20 Min, 
Cook time: 9 Min, 
Total time: 29 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 45 

Method:  
Preheat the oven to 450ºF (230ºC) 
Combine the sugar and salt. Spread 1 cup of the sugar mixture on cutting board or pastry marble. 
Lay a sheet of puff pastry onto the sugar and pour ½ cup of the sugar mixture on top, spreading it evenly over the puff pastry. 
Make sure to get an even covering of sugar. 

Roll the dough until it's 13x13 square and the sugar is pressed into the puff pastry on top and bottom. 
Fold the sides of the square towards the centre so they are halfway to the middle. 
Fold them again so the two folds meet at the middle. Then fold 1 half over the other half. 
You will end up with 6 layers.  the video - it's easier than it sounds. 

Cut into 3/8-inch slices and place, cut side up, on parchment lined baking sheets. 
Continue with the second sheet of puff pastry: there will be lot's of sugar left over on the board. 
*Optional - Sprinkle with cinnamon: everyone loves cinnamon, don't they? 

Bake for 6 minutes until caramelized and golden on the bottom, then turn over and bake another 3 to 5 minutes, until both sides are golden caramel. 
Transfer to a rack to cool. 

Tags: puff pastry  cinnamon 


START RECIPE

Cocoa Peanut Butter and Jam Cookies 
So much fun to make... and even better to eat! 

Ingredients:  
1 cup (250 mL) all-purpose flour 
? cup (75 mL) unsweetened cocoa powder 
½ tsp (2 mL) baking soda 
Pinch of course salt 
½ cup (125 mL) unsalted butter, at room temperature 
¾ cup (175 ml) peanut butter, at room temperature 
¾ cup (175 mL) sugar, plus ¼ cup (60 mL) for coating 
½ cup (125 mL) packed brown sugar 
1 egg, at room temperature 
1 tsp (5 mL) pure vanilla extract 
¼ cup (60 mL) of your favourite jam 

Time:  
Prep time: 25 Min, 
Cook time: 14 Min, 
Total time: 39 Min 

Yield: 
Makes: 8 

Method:  
Preheat oven to 375ºF (190ºC) 
Line baking sheet with parchment paper. 

In a bowl, sift together the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. 
In a stand mixer, fitted with the paddle, beat the butter, peanut butter, ¾ cup of sugar, and brown sugar together, until smooth. 
(scraping down the sides of the bowl if needed) 
the egg and vanilla extract and mix until fully blended. 
With the mixer running on low speed, gradually add the flour & cocoa mixture until fully blended. 
Form the dough into ¼ cup-size balls and roll in the remaining sugar. Arrange 5 balls of dough, evenly apart, on each baking sheet. 
Using the handle end of a wooden spoon, make a hole in the centre of each ball, about ½ to ¾ deep. 
Fill each hole with jam. Bake for 11 to 14 minutes until the dough has spread and the surface of the cookies are crackled. 
Cool slightly and then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely. 
Makes 6-8 depending on scoop size. 


START RECIPE

Apple Crisp Oatmeal Cookies 
These were Gramp's favourite cookies - you'll love 'em too! 

Ingredients:  
2 cups (500 mL) all purpose flour 
1 Tbsp (15 mL) ground cinnamon 
1 tsp (5 mL) baking soda 
1/2 tsp (2 mL) salt 
1 cup (250 mL) softened butter 
1 cup (250 mL) packed brown sugar 
1 cup (250 mL) granulated sugar 
2 eggs 
1 tsp (5 mL) pure vanilla extract 
2 cups (500 mL) quick-cooking oats 
1 cup (250 mL) chopped pecans 
1/2 cup (125 mL) chopped dried apples 

Time:  
Prep time: 25 Min, 
Cook time: 12 Min, 
Total time: 37 Min 

Yield:  
Makes: 72 

Method:  
Preheat oven to 350°F (180ºC) 
Cream butter and sugars in large bowl with electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy. 
Add eggs and vanilla: mix well. 
Mix flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt in a bowl then set aside. 
Gradually beat flour mixture into butter / egg on low speed until well mixed. 
Stir in oats, pecans and apples. 
Drop by rounded tablespoons onto ungreased baking sheets. 
Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until lightly browned. 
Cool on baking sheets 1 minute. 
Remove to wire racks to cool completely. 

Tags: cinnamon  apples  oats  pecans 

START RECIPE

Apple-Cider Doughnut Cake 
  9 
 apple cider donut cake 
Recipe photo courtesy of Jonathan Lovekin 
If you love the apple-cider doughnuts often sold at farmers' markets, you'll love this cake! Baked in a Bundt pan, it's essentially a giant cakey doughnut, made a little more wholesome with whole-wheat flour. A blend of olive oil and applesauce helps keep it moist. This recipe appears in our cookbook, A New Way to Bake (Clarkson Potter). Martha also made this recipe on Martha Bakes episode 802. Source: Martha Stewart Living, March 2017 
2 hours 35 mins	20 mins	Makes one 10-inch cake 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 

MAY WE SUGGEST 

TRUVIA® NECTAR 
Blended with stevia leaf, extract, honey, and sugar, Truvia® Nectar has 50% fewer calories than honey. 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus more for pan 
2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour, plus more for pan 
1 cup whole-wheat flour 
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 3/4 cups natural cane sugar 
1 cup apple cider 
3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
Great Value Extra Virgin Olive Oil 17 oz 
In Stores Only 
See Everyday Low Price 
 
3/4 cup unsweetened applesauce 
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 
3 large eggs, room temperature 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Butter and flour a 12-cup Bundt pan. In a large bowl, whisk together both flours, baking powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, baking soda, and salt. In another bowl, whisk together 1 1/2 cups sugar, cider, oil, applesauce, vanilla, and eggs. Add egg mixture to flour mixture: whisk until combined. Transfer batter to prepared pan. 
2. Bake, rotating pan halfway through, until a tester inserted in center comes out clean, 45 to 50 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack set over a rimmed baking sheet: let cool 15 minutes. Meanwhile, mix together remaining 1/4 cup sugar and 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon. 
3. Invert warm cake onto rack. Brush with melted butter, then sprinkle liberally with cinnamon sugar. Let cool completely before serving. Cake can be stored, covered, at room temperature up to 2 days. 
COOK'S NOTES 
Bundt pans need to be generously buttered and floured so cakes don't stick: use a pastry brush to be sure to get into all the crevices. 



START RECIPE

Carrot Cake with White-Chocolate Frosting 
  10 
 carrot cake with white-chocolate frosting 
Recipe photo courtesy of Ngoc Minh Ngo 
Ruffles of white chocolate-cream cheese frosting take this carrot cake to the next level. Seen from above, it looks like a rose. Make this cake a day or two ahead for the best flavor. Source: Martha Stewart Living, May 2017 
4 hours	1 hour 15 mins	16 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Target 
9040 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45251 
? 
? 
 
 
MAY WE SUGGEST 

TRUVIA® NECTAR 
Blended with stevia leaf, extract, honey, and sugar, Truvia® Nectar has 50% fewer calories than honey. 
Cake 
2 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, melted, plus more for pans 
Organic Butter - 1lb - Simply Balanced 
The Simply Balanced promise means taking the guesswork out of eating well. 
SEE STORE FOR PRICE 
 
3 cups unbleached all-purpose flour 
Market Pantry All-Purpose Flour - 5 lbs 
$2.24 
SEE DETAILS 
 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
2 teaspoons ground ginger 
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 
4 large eggs, room temperature 
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar 
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 
12 ounces carrots (about 5 medium), peeled and shredded on the fine holes of a box grater or food processor (about 3 cups) 
Frosting 
16 ounces cream cheese, room temperature 
9 ounces white chocolate, coarsely chopped (1 3/4 cups), melted and cooled slightly 
2 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, room temperature 
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
1 1/4 cups confectioners sugar, sifted 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Cake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Brush two 8-inch round cake pans with butter. Line pans with parchment rounds: brush parchment 
2. Whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg until thoroughly combined, 30 seconds. Beat eggs with granulated sugar on medium-high speed until pale, fluffy, and doubled in volume, about 5 minutes. While still beating, slowly drizzle in butter, then beat in vanilla until combined. Reduce speed to low and add all but 1/2 cup of flour mixture, beating just until combined. Toss carrots with remaining flour mixture to evenly coat, then fold into batter. Divide batter evenly between pans: smooth tops with an offset spatula. 
3. Bake until cakes are puffed slightly and a tester inserted into centers comes out clean, 33 to 37 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack: let cool 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto rack: remove parchment and let cool completely. 
4. Frosting: Meanwhile, beat cream cheese on medium-high speed until smooth and creamy, about 2 minutes. While still beating, gradually add chocolate until smooth, scraping down bowl as needed. Add butter and lemon juice: beat to combine. Reduce speed to low: beat in confectioners' sugar, 1/4 cup at a time, until smooth and combined. 
5. Cut each cake horizontally into 2 layers with a serrated knife. Place bottom layer of one cake, cut-side up, on a cake stand, preferably revolving, or a plate lined with parchment strips. Spread evenly with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with other half of cake, cut-side down: spread evenly with another 3/4 cup frosting. Repeat layering and frosting with second cake. Spread 1 cup frosting evenly over top and sides to create a crumb coat. Refrigerate, uncovered, until frosting is firm, at least 30 minutes. 
6. Transfer remaining frosting to a pastry bag fitted with a petal tip, such as Ateco or Wilton 104. Starting at top center of cake and holding tip vertically, pipe frosting while slowly turning stand or plate, gradually working outward toward edges to create a swirl effect. Repeat process down side of cake, starting at top edge. (Sides will be easier to decorate if you keep large end of tip touching or almost touching cake, holding pointed tip perpendicular to cake while tracing down side.) If frosting starts to get too loose, refrigerate briefly just until firm, but not long enough to harden. Cake can be stored, uncovered, at room temperature up to 12 hours or refrigerated, uncovered, up to 2 days: bring to room temperature before serving. 


START RECIPE

Rosy Rhubarb-Meringue Cake 
  5 
 rosy rhubarb meringue cake 
Recipe photo courtesy of Dana Gallagher 
Sky-high meringue is teamed with billows of freshly whipped cream and homemade rhubarb compote for this showstopping cake. Source: Martha Stewart Living, April 2017 
4 hours 30 mins	30 mins	Serves 8 to 10 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 
Currently these ingredients aren't on sale near you. 
 
Coconut oil, for brushing 
5 large egg whites, room temperature 
2 1/3 cups granulated sugar 
1 tablespoon cornstarch 
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 
1 teaspoon white-wine vinegar 
2 pinches of kosher salt 
1 bunch rhubarb (1 pound), trimmed and cut into 1/2-inch pieces (about 3 1/3 cups) 
2 tablespoons muscat, such as Muscat de Beaumes de Venise 
1 1/2 cups cold heavy cream 
3 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Lightly brush an 8-inch springform pan with coconut oil: line bottom with parchment. Beat egg whites on medium-high speed until soft peaks form. Slowly add 1 2/3 cups granulated sugar while beating continuously until stiff, glossy peaks form, about 7 minutes. Fold in cornstarch, vanilla, vinegar, and 1 pinch salt. 
2. Spoon meringue into prepared pan, smooth top level with an offset spatula, and transfer to oven. Immediately reduce heat to 325 degrees: bake, without opening oven door, until cake has a pale honey color, 70 minutes. (If top appears to be getting too brown, lower heat slightly.) Turn off oven: let meringue stand inside, without opening oven door, at least 1 hour and up to overnight. (Marshmallow center will sink and leave high, crisp sides.) 
3. Meanwhile, place rhubarb, remaining 2/3 cup granulated sugar, muscat, and remaining pinch of salt in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Simmer gently, stirring occasionally, until sugar is dissolved and rhubarb is tender and partially broken down, about 7 minutes. Transfer rhubarb to a bowl with a slotted spoon and continue to cook liquid until reduced by half. Pour liquid over rhubarb: let cool completely. Rhubarb can be made to this point and stored in an airtight container in refrigerator up to 1 week. 
4. Just before serving, carefully remove cake from springform and place on a serving platter. Whisk together cream and confectioners' sugar until soft peaks form. Pile 2 1/2 cups whipped cream into center of meringue, then spoon 1 cup rhubarb mixture over. Serve, with remaining rhubarb mixture and whipped cream on the side. 

START RECIPE

Russian Tea Cakes 
  5 
 russian tea cakes 
Recipe photo courtesy of Bryan Gardner 
Rolling these classic Christmas cookies in powdered sugar once while they're still warm and again when they're completely cooled ensures their snowball-like appearance.  
1 hour 20 mins	30 mins	Makes 4 dozen 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Family Dollar 
951 W North Bend Rd Ste 1 
CINCINNATI OH 45224 
? 
? 
 
2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour 
1 cup almond flour 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
2 sticks unsalted butter (1 cup), room temperature 
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, divided 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
2 tablespoons almond liqueur, such as amaretto 
Simply Orange Orange Juice Original, Pulp Free 
$4.00 thru 01/22 
 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Preheat oven to 325 degrees with racks in the upper and lower third positions. 
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together flours and salt. Set aside. 
3. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with with paddle attachment, or in a large bowl with an electric hand mixer, cream butter and 1/2 cup sugar on medium-high until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Beat in vanilla and almond liqueur until fully combined. Add flour mixture: beat until combined. 
4. Using 1 rounded teaspoon of dough per cookie, roll into balls with the palms of your hands: place onto two parchment-lined baking sheets, 1 inch apart. Bake, rotating halfway through, until cookies are set and just turning golden around the edges, about 16 minutes. 
5. Remove from oven and let cookies cool slightly on baking sheets, about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, add remaining 1 cup sugar to a medium bowl. When cool enough to handle, roll a few cookies at a time in the bowl of sugar to coat. Transfer to a rack to cool completely, about 30 minutes. Roll cookies in sugar again until thoroughly coated. Cookies can be stored in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 5 days. 


START RECIPE

Marshmallow Fudge 
  1 
 marshmallow fudge 
Recipe photo courtesy of Bryan Gardner 
Mini marshmallows are melted into this dark chocolate fudge, giving it the smoothest, creamiest texture.  
2 hours 20 mins	20 mins	Makes 36 squares 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Meijer 
3711 Stonecreek Blvd 
CINCINNATI OH 45251 
 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more, room temperature, for brushing 
1 1/4 cups sugar 
1 can (5 ounces) evaporated milk 
Carnation Evaporated Milk 
4 for $5.00 thru 01/27 
 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 1/4 cups mini marshmallows 
9 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped (1 3/4 cups) 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
Lightly brush an 8-inch baking pan with butter, then line with parchment, leaving 2-inch overhang on two sides. Lightly butter parchment. 

2.  
In a medium saucepan, combine remaining 2 tablespoons butter, sugar, evaporated milk, and salt. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring constantly, then cook for 3 minutes more, until pale golden and thickened slightly. Remove from heat and stir in marshmallows until mostly melted, then add chocolate and vanilla. Stir until chocolate and marshmallows have melted completely and mixture is smooth. Pour into prepared pan: smooth top with a spatula. 

3.  
Refrigerate until firm, at least 2 hours. Remove parchment with fudgeCrispy Chickpea Snack 
  
 roasted chickpeas 
Recipe photo courtesy of Bryan Gardner 
Instead of serving chips and dip, sate visitors' salty-snack cravings with a bowl of hearty, healthful roasted chickpeas flavored with your favorite dried herb or spice (we used garam masala).  
1 hour 35 mins	5 mins	Makes about 1 1/2 cups 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
 
1 (15-ounce) can chickpeas 
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
Great Value Extra Virgin Olive Oil 17 oz 
In Stores Only 
See Everyday Low Price 
 
1/2 teaspoon garam masala 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
Drain, rinse, and spread chickpeas on paper towels. Let air-dry for 1 hour, then pat dry. 

2.  
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 

3.  
Pour oil onto a rimmed baking sheet and preheat in oven for 10 minutes. Carefully remove pan from oven and add chickpeas. Toss to coat. Roast, stirring a few times, until golden and crispy, 30 to 35 minutes. Let cool to room temperature, then toss in a bowl with garam masala, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and a pinch of pepper. Chickpeas can be stored in an airtight container at room temperature up to 5 days.  

START RECIPE

Rutabaga Oven Fries 
  
 
Recipe photo courtesy of David Malosh 
Batons of rutabaga become irresistibly nutty-sweet when roasted. A touch of smoked paprika adds depth and richness.  
50 mins	10 mins	6 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
 
2 pounds rutabaga, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch strips 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil 
Great Value Extra Virgin Olive Oil 17 oz 
In Stores Only 
See Everyday Low Price 
 
1/4 teaspoon smoked paprika 
Kosher salt 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Toss rutabaga with oil. Season with smoked paprika and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Divide between two baking sheets. Roast until tender, flipping once, about 40 minutes. 


START RECIPE

Fish Birthday Cake 
  
 
Recipe photo courtesy of Johnny Miller 
Templates make it easy to build this aquatic creature. Just cut out the parts, assemble them, and frost. When you bring this cake to the table, we guarantee you won't have to fish for compliments. Source: Martha Stewart Living, May 2012 
Makes 1 
YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Aldi 
2550 W Galbraith Rd 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
 
Golden Sheet Cakes 
Meringue Buttercream Frosting 
Blue gel food coloring 
2 candy-coated sunflower seeds 
Sunflower Seeds Regular 
$1.99 thru 01/27 
 
1 red gummy Life Savers candy, halved 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Place templates on sheet cakes, and cut out with a paring knife. Discard scraps. Halve smallest fin piece and round eyeball piece horizontally, discarding bottom halves. 
2. Arrange pieces into a fish shape. 
3. Starting with 6 cups buttercream, reserve 1/2 cup and tint the rest pale blue with food coloring. Use blue buttercream to attach fins, tail tip, and eyeballs to body. Coat eyeballs with untinted buttercream and the rest of cake with blue buttercream, rounding over the fin in the center of the body. Refrigerate until frosting is firm, about 30 minutes and up to overnight. Add a second smooth coat of untinted buttercream to eyes. Layer more blue buttercream on fins and tail, creating grooves with a small offset spatula. Add more food coloring to remaining buttercream to darken it. Place in a pastry bag fitted with a small curved petal tip (Ateco 61). Starting at the edge of tail, pipe scallops across the body, overlapping each scallop and each row. 
4. Use sunflower seeds as pupils and gummy candy as lips. 

START RECIPE

Ginger-Chicken Slaw 
  
 ginger chicken slaw 
Recipe photo courtesy of Johnny Fogg 
A fragrant mixture of ginger and garlic does double duty in this anti-inflammatory dinner -- it amps up the lime dressing and flavors the roasted chicken breasts. Source: Martha Stewart Living, January/February 2018 
50 mins	30 mins	4 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
? 
? 
 
1 tablespoon grated ginger 
1 tablespoon grated garlic 
Great Value Minced Garlic, 32 oz 
In Stores Only 
SEE EVERYDAY LOW PRICE 
 
2 tablespoons coconut oil 
3 tablespoons fresh lime juice, plus 1 teaspoon grated lime zest 
1/2 teaspoon sugar 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
2 small bone-in, skin-on chicken-breast halves (1 pound total) 
4 cups shredded Savoy cabbage 
2 cups peeled and julienned carrots 
Cilantro leaves and chopped roasted cashews, for serving 
DIRECTIONS 

1.  
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. In a small skillet, cook ginger and garlic over medium heat in oil, stirring, 1 minute. Reserve 1 tablespoon mixture and transfer remainder to a bowl. Whisk in lime juice and zest and sugar. Season with salt and pepper. 

2.  
Brush reserved ginger mixture over chicken and season with salt. Roast on a rimmed baking sheet until skin is crisp and a thermometer inserted into thickest parts (without touching bones) reads 165 degrees, about 25 minutes. Let cool slightly, then shred into bite-size pieces (discarding skin and bones). 

3.  
Toss chicken, cabbage, and carrots with dressing. Season with salt and pepper. Serve, topped with cilantro and cashews. 

COOK'S NOTES 
To grate ginger, we suggest using a ceramic grater for the finest results and the fewest pesky fibrous pieces. 


START RECIPE

Gingery Beet Soup 
  
 gingery beet soup 
Recipe photo courtesy of Johnny Fogg 
Fresh ginger is simmered with beets and potatoes in this nourishing soup, as well as combined with yogurt to finish the dish. Source: Martha Stewart Living, January/February 2018 
50 mins	30 mins	4 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
? 
? 
 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for serving 
Great Value Extra Virgin Olive Oil 17 oz 
In Stores Only  
See Everyday Low Price 
 
1/2 yellow onion, chopped 
2 tablespoons chopped peeled ginger, plus 1/4 teaspoon grated ginger 
3 garlic cloves, peeled and smashed 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
3 cups chopped peeled beets (from 2 medium) 
1 cup chopped Yukon Gold potato (from 1 large) 
1/2 cup plain yogurt 
Fresh thyme leaves, for serving (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
1. In a medium saucepan, heat oil over medium-high. Add onion, chopped ginger, garlic, and a pinch of salt: cook until softened, 4 to 5 minutes. Add beets, potato, and 4 cups water. Season with salt and pepper. Bring to a simmer, cover, and cook until vegetables are tender, 25 to 30 minutes. Let cool slightly: transfer to a blender. Blend until smooth, adding 1/4 to 1/2 cup water for desired consistency. 
2. Stir together yogurt and grated ginger. Ladle soup into bowls: swirl in yogurt. Top with thyme (if desired), a drizzle of olive oil, and more pepper.
COOK'S NOTES 
To grate ginger, we suggest using a ceramic grater for the finest results and the fewest pesky fibrous pieces. 


START RECIPE

Lemon-Ginger Soda 
  
 lemon ginger soda 
Recipe photo courtesy of Johnny Fogg 
A touch of honey mellows the fresh ginger and lemon in this refreshing fizzy drink. If you make the base in advance, the soda comes together in mere seconds. Source: Martha Stewart Living, January/February 2018 
10 mins	10 mins	1 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 
THE FOOD NEWSLETTER 
Great tips & recipes delivered to your inbox. 

SIGN ME UP	Wooden Spoons 
INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Kroger 
8421 Winton Rd Ste A 
CINCINNATI OH 45231 
? 
? 
 
1/4 cup chopped peeled ginger, plus slice of ginger for garnish 
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice 
Lemons Regular, Bag 
$2.99 thru 01/23 
 
1/4 cup honey 
Ice 
Seltzer 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
Blend ginger with 1/2 cup water until smooth. Strain, pressing on solids to yield 1/2 cup juice. Stir together ginger juice, lemon juice, and honey. Ginger base can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator up to 1 week. (It makes enough for 10 drinks.) 

2.  
Fill a glass with ice and add 2 tablespoons ginger base. Top with seltzer and garnish with a slice of ginger. 

COOK'S NOTES 
Ginger juice (without the honey and lemon) can be frozen up to 3 months. Defrost before using. 


START RECIPE

Lemony Pesto Chicken Soup 
  
 lemony pesto chicken soup 
Recipe photo courtesy of Pernille Loof 
Brighten your winter with this bright, lively soup that tastes like spring. It comes together in a flash, especially if you use store-bought broth, rotisserie chicken, and pesto. Source: Martha Stewart Living, January/February 2018 
20 mins	10 mins	4	Makes 6 cups 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
? 
? 
 
6 cups Basic Chicken Stock or store-bought low-sodium chicken broth 
1/2 cup orzo 
1 cup shredded cooked chicken 
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice, plus lemon wedges for serving 
Organic Lemons 
2 lbs Bag 
See Store for Price 
 
1/4 cup Basic Basil Pesto or store-bought pesto, such as Gotham Greens 
Grated Parmesan, pea shoots or other delicate greens, and fresh basil, for serving 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
In a saucepan, bring stock to a simmer. Add orzo and cook 1 minute less than per package instructions. Add chicken and heat through, about 1 minute. Remove from heat. Stir in lemon juice. Divide among bowls. Add 1 tablespoon pesto to each. Serve with lemon wedges, grated Parmesan, pea shoots or other delicate greens, and fresh basil. 


START RECIPE

Green Thai Chicken Soup 
  
 green thai chicken soup 
Recipe photo courtesy of Pernille Loof 
Pressed for time? Using store-bought broth, rotisserie chicken, and curry paste means you can get this vibrant, flavorful soup on the table in under half an hour. Source: Martha Stewart Living, January/February 2018 
25 mins	20 mins	4	Makes 6 cups 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Save-A-Lot 
6700 Hamilton Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45224 
? 
? 
 
1 1/2 cups chopped sweet bell peppers 
Green Peppers 
$0.59 thru 01/23 
 
1 tablespoon safflower oil 
1 tablespoon green Thai curry paste, such as Maesri 
1 quart Basic Chicken Stock or store-bought low-sodium chicken broth 
1 cup shredded cooked chicken 
2 cups thinly sliced baby bok choy 
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
In a saucepan, saute bell peppers in oil over medium-high until softened and browning in places, 4 to 5 minutes. Add curry paste: cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add stock: bring to a simmer. Add chicken and bok choy. Cook until bok choy is just wilted and chicken is heated through, about 1 minute. Remove from heat. Stir in lime juice. Season with salt and pepper. 




START RECIPE

Easy Chicken Posole 
  
 easy chicken posole 
Recipe photo courtesy of Pernille Loof 
It doesn't get simpler than this quick take on the classic Mexican soup, especially if you use store-bought broth and rotisserie chicken. Source: Martha Stewart Living, January/February 2018 
10 mins	10 mins	4	Makes 6 cups 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Save-A-Lot 
6700 Hamilton Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45224 
 
1 quart Basic Chicken Stock or store-bought low-sodium chicken broth 
1/4 cup guajillo chile salsa, such as Frontera 
1 (15-ounce) can hominy, rinsed and drained 
1 1/2 teaspoons sherry vinegar 
1 cup shredded cooked chicken 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
Cilantro sprigs, for serving 
Cilantro Chinese Parsley/ Coriander 
$1.00 thru 01/23 
 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
In a saucepan, bring stock to a simmer. Stir in salsa, hominy, sherry vinegar, and chicken. Cook until chicken and hominy are heated through, about 1 minute. Season with salt and pepper. Serve with cilantro. 


START RECIPE

Turmeric-Ginger Chicken Soup 
  1 
 ginger spice chicken soup 
Recipe photo courtesy of Pernille Loof 
If you're tight on time, you can make this restorative, immunity-boosting soup with store-bought broth and rotisserie chicken. Source: Martha Stewart Living, January/February 2018 
20 mins	15 mins	4	Makes 6 cups 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
? 
? 
 
1 thinly sliced garlic clove 
Great Value Minced Garlic, 32 oz 
In Stores Only 
SEE EVERYDAY LOW PRICE 
 
1/4 teaspoon turmeric 
1 teaspoon grated ginger 
1 teaspoon extra-virgin olive oil 
Great Value Extra Virgin Olive Oil 17 oz 
In Stores Only 
See Everyday Low Price 
 
6 cups Basic Chicken Stock or store-bought low-sodium chicken broth 
3 ounces angel-hair pasta, broken in half 
1 cup shredded cooked chicken 
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 
Microgreens and thinly sliced scallions, for serving 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
In a saucepan over medium-high heat, saute garlic, turmeric, and ginger in oil until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add stock: bring to a simmer. Add pasta: cook 1 minute less than per package instructions. Add chicken: heat through, 1 minute. Remove from heat. Stir in lemon juice. Serve with microgreens and scallions. 



START RECIPE

Vegetarian Collard Greens 
  
 
Recipe photo courtesy of David Malosh 
Southern-style collard greens get their signature richness from being braised with ham hocks or bacon. For a meatless flavor boost, use an umami-packed Parmesan rind instead (find one made without rennet for a strictly vegetarian version). The rind will hold its shape as the greens simmer, so you can remove it from the pot in one piece when done. Source: Martha Stewart Living, April 2014 
1 hour 10 mins	10 mins	4 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Meijer 
3711 Stonecreek Blvd 
CINCINNATI OH 45251 
 
1 Parmesan rind (3 to 4 inches long) 
3 pounds (about 4 bunches) collard greens, stalks removed, leaves cut into 1-inch pieces 
Pinch red-pepper flakes, or more to taste 
3 tablespoons white-wine vinegar 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
Hot sauce, for serving (optional) 
Franks RedHot Sauce Original 
2 for $5.00 thru 01/27 
 
DIRECTIONS 
1. In a large pot, combine Parmesan rind, collard greens, red-pepper flakes, and 8 cups water: bring to a boil. Reduce to a simmer, and cook until collards are very tender, 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
2. Remove Parmesan rind, and discard. Add vinegar, and season with salt and pepper. Serve collards with their broth, and, if desired, hot sauce. 


START RECIPE

Salted Caramel Buttercream 
  
 salted caramel buttercream 
Recipe photo courtesy of Bryan Gardner 
Use the leftover caramel from this rich, sweet-and-salty frosting to give your cake or cupcakes (like our One-Bowl Chocolate Cupcakes) an extra-special swirl effect.  
35 mins	25 mins	Makes 7 cups 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Target 
9040 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45251 
? 
? 
 
3 1/2 cups sugar 
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons heavy cream 
9 large egg whites 
1 teaspoon kosher salt 
3 cups (6 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature 
Organic Butter - 1lb - Simply Balanced 
The Simply Balanced promise means taking the guesswork out of eating well. 
SEE STORE FOR PRICE 
 
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 
Flaky sea salt, for garnish (optional) 
DIRECTIONS 
1.  
Combine 2 1/2 cups sugar and 3/4 cup water in a medium saucepan. Bring to a boil over high, stirring just until sugar dissolves. Cook, swirling the pot occasionally (not stirring), until dark amber, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat: slowly stir in cream until caramel is smooth (mixture will splatter). Set aside to cool. 

2.  
Whisk together egg whites, kosher salt, and remaining 1 cup sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer set over (not in) a pot of simmering water. Whisk until sugar is dissolved and mixture is smooth and warm to the touch. Transfer bowl to mixer fitted with the whisk attachment: beat on medium-high speed until mixture is fluffy and cool, and stiff peaks form, about 10 minutes. Add butter 2 tablespoons at a time, whisking well after each addition. Whisk in vanilla. Slowly pour in 1 1/2 cups caramel with mixer on medium speed, and whisk until incorporated. Increase to high speed (the mixture will look curdled), and continue to whisk until smooth, about 3 minutes. Switch to the paddle attachment and beat on low speed for 2 minutes to remove air bubbles. Frost cake or cupcakes. Drizzle remaining caramel over the top, then swirl with a skewer or toothpick. Sprinkle with flaky salt, if desired. 

COOK'S NOTES 
Buttercream can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator up to 3 days, or in the freezer up to 1 month. Bring to room temperature before using, and beat until smooth. 


START RECIPE

Warm Lentil Salad with Poached Eggs 
  
 humble beginnings warm lentil salad eggs 
Recipe photo courtesy of Christopher Testani 
French green lentils and Swiss chard join the aromatic blend of finely diced onion, carrot, and celery known as mirepoix in this hearty salad. It's tossed in a lemony mustard dressing while still warm and finished with fresh parsley, creamy goat cheese, crunchy almonds, and the piece de resistance, poached eggs. Source: Martha Stewart Living, January/February 2018 
1 hour 15 mins	45 mins	Serves 6 to 8 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
? 
? 
 
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
1 tablespoon country Dijon mustard 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
Great Value Extra Virgin Olive Oil 17 oz 
In Stores Only 
See Everyday Low Price 
 
1 1/3 cups French green lentils 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter 
3 medium carrots, peeled and cut into a 1/4-inch dice (1 cup) 
2 celery stalks, cut into a 1/4-inch dice (1 cup) 
1 medium onion, cut into a 1/4-inch dice (2 cups) 
1 bunch Swiss chard, stems trimmed and cut into a 1/4-inch dice (1 1/4 cups), leaves thinly sliced crosswise 
4 ounces fresh goat cheese, crumbled 
1/3 cup roasted almonds, coarsely chopped 
1 cup packed flat-leaf parsley leaves 
Easy Poached Eggs, for serving 
DIRECTIONS 
1. In a bowl, whisk together lemon juice, Dijon, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Slowly add oil, whisking constantly, until emulsified: set aside. 
2. In a saucepan, cover lentils with at least 2 inches cold water: season with 1 1/2 teaspoons salt. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until lentils are tender but not mushy, 18 to 22 minutes. Drain and transfer to a large serving bowl. 
3. Meanwhile, melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add carrots, celery, onion, and chard stems. Season with 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are tender but do not develop color, 6 to 8 minutes. Stir in chard leaves and continue cooking until leaves collapse and become tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer to bowl with lentils. Immediately drizzle with dressing and toss to evenly coat. Let cool slightly, 10 minutes. Fold in goat cheese, almonds, and parsley. Serve warm, with eggs on top. 



START RECIPE

Cashew-Chicken Kebabs 
  1 
 cashew chicken kebabs 
Recipe photo courtesy of Armando Rafael 
To make the sauce for these Thai-inspired kebabs, simply pulse cashews and curry paste together with water. Consider using other nuts, too, like peanuts or almonds. Source: Martha Stewart Living, May 2017 
50 mins	50 mins	4 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Save-A-Lot 
6700 Hamilton Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45224 
? 
? 
 
 
MAY WE SUGGEST 

TYSON GRILLED & READY® CHICKEN 
Grilled chicken seasoned with real, simple ingredients. 
1 1/2 cups unsalted roasted cashews, plus more, chopped, for serving 
3 to 4 tablespoons red curry paste (depending on desired heat) 
4 boneless, skinless chicken thighs (1 1/4 pounds total), cut into 1 1/2-inch pieces 
Kosher salt 
8 ounces vermicelli rice noodles, broken in half 
1 English cucumber 
Cucumbers English 
$0.59 thru 01/23 
 
2 large carrots, peeled 
Safflower oil, for brushing 
1 cup shredded iceberg lettuce 
Lime wedges, for serving 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Soak eight 8-inch wooden skewers in water 15 minutes. In a food processor, pulse cashews with curry paste and 3/4 cup water until smooth. Combine 1 cup of cashew mixture with 1/3 cup water. Toss chicken with remaining mixture: lightly season with salt. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of water to a boil. Cook noodles until just tender, about 2 minutes: drain. Rinse with cold water: drain well. 
2. With a vegetable peeler or mandoline, shave cucumber and carrots into wide, paper-thin ribbons. Heat a grill or grill pan to medium-high: lightly brush with oil. Thread chicken onto skewers: grill, in batches if needed, 6 to 8 minutes per side, transferring to a plate as done. Serve, with noodles, lettuce, cucumber, carrots, cashew sauce, chopped cashews, and lime wedges. 
COOK'S NOTES 
If the cooked noodles stick together, rinse them under cold water again before serving and drain well. 


START RECIPE

Wisconsin Beer Brats 
  1 
 wisconsin beer brats 
Recipe photo courtesy of Armando Rafael 
For these brawny dogs, bratwursts are simmered in a mixture of beer with sweet onions, caraway seeds, and a spoonful of sugar, then charred on the grill. If you're going full-on, the onions are strained and sauteed in a skillet on the grill until golden, then mixed with sauerkraut. You'll be booed out of Wisconsin if you bring soft potato buns to the party -- for a true cheesehead, only a sturdy hoagie roll will do. Source: Martha Stewart Living, June 2017
1 hour 10 mins	45 mins	6 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 
Currently these ingredients aren't on sale near you. 
 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
2 large sweet onions, such as Vidalia, halved and thinly sliced (4 cups) 
Kosher salt 
2 teaspoons caraway seeds 
1 dried bay leaf 
2 tablespoons spicy brown mustard, plus more for serving 
3 tablespoons packed light-brown sugar 
6 precooked bratwursts 
2 bottles (each 12 ounces) lager beer 
2 cups sauerkraut, strained 
6 hoagie rolls, split 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large, grill-safe straight-sided skillet (preferably cast iron) over medium. Add onions and a pinch of salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until onions are soft and golden in places, about 20 minutes. Stir in caraway seeds, bay leaf, mustard, and brown sugar: cook 30 seconds. Add bratwursts and beer. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer, turning bratwursts occasionally, 20 minutes. 
2. Preheat grill for direct-heat cooking (medium-high on a gas grill). Transfer bratwursts to a plate. Drain onion mixture in a fine-mesh sieve: discard liquid. Return mixture to skillet with remaining 1 tablespoon oil. Place on one side of grill and cook, stirring occasionally, until golden brown, about 5 minutes. Stir in sauerkraut: cook 1 minute more. 
3. Meanwhile, place bratwursts on grill and cook, turning a few times, until blistered in places, about 5 minutes. Place rolls on grill, cut-sides down, until lightly toasted and charred in places, about 1 minute. 
4. Serve bratwursts in rolls, topped with sauerkraut mixture and more mustard. 


START RECIPE

Spatchcocked Saffron Chicken 
  2 
 SPATCHCOCKED SAFFRON CHICKEN 
Recipe photo courtesy of Bobbi Lin 
Spatchcocking might be the easiest and quickest way to cook a whole chicken. The technique is reminiscent of an Omani practice that uses smooth riverbed stones placed over the embers of a fire to grill meat. Source: Martha Stewart's Cooking School, Episode 502 
4 
SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Save-A-Lot 
6700 Hamilton Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45224 
? 
? 
 
 
MAY WE SUGGEST 

TYSON GRILLED & READY® CHICKEN 
Grilled chicken seasoned with real, simple ingredients. 
1 whole chicken (about 4 pounds) 
Chicken Whole Frying 
1 lb for $0.99 thru 01/23 
 
Chicken Breasts Split 
$5.99 thru 01/23 
 
3 tablespoons fresh mint, finely chopped 
Mint Fresh 
$1.00 thru 01/23 
 
3 tablespoons fresh cilantro, finely chopped 
Cilantro Chinese Parsley/ Coriander 
$1.00 thru 01/23 
 
6 tablespoons ghee 
2 teaspoons kosher salt 
3/4 teaspoon saffron threads 
Safflower oil, for grill 
DIRECTIONS 
1. To spatchcock a chicken, cut along each side of the backbone with shears. Remove the backbone and reserve it for stock (it can be frozen up to 3 months). Turn chicken breast-side up: flatten it with your palm. 
2. In a small bowl, combine mint, cilantro, 3 tablespoons ghee, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1/2 teaspoon saffron. Carefully loosen skin from breasts and thighs with your fingers and rub ghee mixture under skin. Place chicken on a plate, cover, and refrigerate at least 1 hour. 
3. Preheat oven to 350 degrees and heat a grill or grill pan over medium-high. Brush grill with oil to prevent sticking. Rub chicken with remaining 3 tablespoons ghee and season with remaining 1 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon saffron. Reduce heat to medium. 
4. Grill the chicken, skin-side down, for 20 minutes. For more even cooking, the chicken can be weighted with a foil-covered brick, if desired. Flip chicken and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet and cook until a thermometer inserted into the thickest part, without touching the bone, registers 165 degrees, 20 to 25 minutes more. 
5. Transfer to a plate, cover, and let rest for at least 10 minutes before serving. 


START RECIPE


Saffron-Yogurt Chicken Kebabs 
  4 
 kebabs saffron yogurt chicken 
Recipe photo courtesy of Bobbi Lin 
A rich Greek yogurt-based marinade is the key to these juicy flame-kissed chicken skewers. Source: Martha Stewart's Cooking School, Episode 508
Serves 4 to 6 
YIELD 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 
Currently these ingredients aren't on sale near you. 
 
3/4 cup plain whole-milk Greek yogurt 
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for drizzling 
Zest and juice of 1 lemon 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme leaves 
2 cloves garlic, roughly chopped 
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads 
1/2 teaspoon paprika 
1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 2-inch pieces 
6 lemon wedges, for serving 
DIRECTIONS 
1. In a medium bowl, whisk to combine yogurt, oil, lemon zest and juice, thyme, garlic, saffron, paprika, turmeric, cayenne, 2 teaspoons salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. 
2. Add chicken to yogurt marinade and toss to coat. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 2 hours and up to overnight.
3. Preheat grill or grill pan to medium-high. Thread chicken onto six 10-inch skewers and season with salt and pepper. Grill chicken until cooked through, about 6 to 8 minutes per side. Drizzle with oil and serve with lemon wedges. 
COOK'S NOTES 
If using wooden skewers, soak them in water for 30 minutes before grilling. 


START RECIPE



Steak-and-Brie Sandwich with Chimichurri 
  1 
 grilled steak sandwich 
Recipe photo courtesy of Armando Rafael 
After grilling, marinate the sliced steak in arugula chimichurri for an extra-fresh finish, then layer it on top of brie. Source: Martha Stewart Living, July/August 2017 
1 hour	40 mins	4 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
 
1 pound flank steak 
2 tablespoons packed light-brown sugar 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
1 1/2 cups packed baby arugula, plus more for serving 
3/4 cup packed fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves 
2 tablespoons red-wine vinegar 
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for brushing and drizzling 
Great Value Extra Virgin Olive Oil 17 oz 
In Stores Only 
See Everyday Low Price 
 
1 cup sliced roasted red peppers, drained, plus 1 tablespoon brine (from a 12-ounce jar) 
1 baguette (20 to 24 inches), halved lengthwise 
6 ounces brie, thinly sliced 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Preheat a grill or grill pan to medium-high. Rub steak with brown sugar: season with salt and pepper. Let stand 10 minutes. Pulse arugula and parsley in a food processor until finely chopped. Transfer mixture to a bowl: stir in vinegar, oil, 1/4 teaspoon salt, and brine. 
2. Lightly brush grill with oil. Pat steak dry: grill, turning once halfway through, until well browned (7 to 9 minutes total for medium-rare). Let stand 10 minutes, then slice 1/4 inch thick against the grain. Toss with accumulated juices, peppers, and half of chimichurri. Drizzle baguette halves with oil: grill, turning once, until lightly toasted, 1 to 2 minutes. Just before serving, layer bottom half of baguette with brie and steak mixture. Top with arugula: close sandwich and cut into 4 portions. Serve, with remaining chimichurri. 




START RECIPE

Smoky Grilled Chicken with Sweet Vinegar Sauce 
  1
 Spice-Rubbed Grilled Chicken with Sweet Vinegar Sauce 
Recipe photo courtesy of Armando Rafael 
A salty-sweet vinegar sauce is brushed over this spice-rubbed chicken as it comes off the grill for next-level flavor. Source: Martha Stewart Living, July/August 2017 
4 
SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 
Currently these ingredients aren't on sale near you. 
 
1 teaspoon smoked paprika 
1 teaspoon dry mustard 
1 teaspoon light-brown sugar 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 chicken (4 pounds), cut into 10 pieces (breasts halved crosswise) 
1/4 cup red-wine vinegar 
1 tablespoon honey 
1 thinly sliced red chile pepper 
Extra-virgin olive oil 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Combine paprika, mustard, sugar, cayenne, 1 tablespoon salt, and 1/2 teaspoon black pepper. Sprinkle mixture evenly on chicken, then set chicken on a rimmed baking sheet. Let stand uncovered 1 hour. 
2. Separately, combine vinegar, honey, and chile. 
3. Heat a charcoal grill, creating a two-zone fire with vents partially open. Position coals on one side of the grill for direct high heat, and leave the other side empty for indirect lower heat. (On a gas grill, turn one side on high, and leave the other burners off.) Lightly coat chicken with olive oil and place over indirect heat. Cover and cook, turning occasionally, until pieces are cooked through and a thermometer inserted into thickest parts (not touching bones) registers 165 degrees, about 30 minutes. 
4. Uncover grill: transfer chicken to direct heat. Brush on vinegar sauce as pieces come off the grill, and serve it on the side. 



START RECIPE


Cheddar-and-Scallion Savory Pancakes 
  2 
 savory cheddar scallion pancakes bacon 
Recipe photo courtesy of Armando Rafael 
Keep the cooked pancakes warm on a wire rack set over a rimmed baking sheet in a 200-degree oven while making the rest. Source: Martha Stewart Living, March 2017 
35 mins	35 mins	4 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Target 
9040 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45251 
? 
? 
 
 
MAY WE SUGGEST 

NEW QUAKER OVERNIGHT OATS 
Discover the delicious oat sensation when you cold-steep your favorite Quaker Oats overnight! 
“Learn 
2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour 
Market Pantry All-Purpose Flour - 5 lbs 
$2.24 
SEE DETAILS 
 
2 teaspoons sugar 
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
2 large eggs, room temperature 
1 1/2 cups low-fat buttermilk, room temperature 
2 tablespoons safflower oil, plus more for skillet 
1 cup shredded sharp white cheddar (2 1/2 ounces) 
3 scallions, thinly sliced (1/2 cup), plus more for serving 
Crisp-cooked bacon and Greek yogurt, for serving 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and 1 teaspoon salt in a bowl. Add eggs, buttermilk, and oil: whisk until just moistened. (Do not overmix: a few small lumps are fine.) Fold in cheese and scallions. 
2. Heat a large nonstick skillet over medium. Drizzle skillet with oil: rub with a paper towel to evenly coat. Cooking in batches, ladle 1/4 cup batter per pancake into skillet, spreading in an even circle. Cook until edges begin to set and undersides are golden, 2 to 3 minutes. Flip: cook until golden and crisp, 2 to 3 minutes more. Top with more scallions, bacon, yogurt, and pepper: serve. 

START RECIPE

Parmesan Fried Eggs with Bitter Greens 
  4 
 parmesan fried eggs with bitter greens 
Recipe photo courtesy of Ryan Liebe 
Grated Parmesan becomes irresistibly crisp and lacy when added to a hot skillet, taking ordinary fried eggs to new heights. Source: Martha Stewart Living, May 2017 
20 mins	20 mins	2 
TOTAL TIME	PREP	SERVINGS 

INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients on sale 

Walmart 
8451 Colerain Ave 
CINCINNATI OH 45239 
? 
? 
 
1/2 cup finely grated Parmesan 
2 large eggs 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
2 cups baby bitter greens, such as kale, amaranth, dandelion, or mizuna 
1/2 lemon 
1 teaspoon extra-virgin olive oil 
Great Value Extra Virgin Olive Oil 17 oz 
In Stores Only 
See Everyday Low Price 
 
DIRECTIONS 
1. Heat a small nonstick skillet over medium until a shred of cheese dropped in begins to sizzle. Spread 1/4 cup cheese in an even layer over bottom of skillet. Heat without disturbing until cheese begins to bubble, 30 seconds to 1 minute. Crack 1 egg directly on top of cheese. Cook until edges are just set, about 2 minutes. Cover and continue cooking until white is set but yolk is still runny, about 1 minute, 30 seconds more. Season with salt and pepper. Run a spatula around edge of egg and cheese to loosen. Transfer to a plate with spatula. Repeat with remaining 1/4 cup cheese and egg. 
2. Top eggs with greens. Squeeze lemon over top and drizzle with oil: season with salt and pepper and serve. 

START RECIPE

BEET, RASPBERRY AND VANILLA SMOOTHIE BOWL 
NOVEMBER 13, 2015 
beetsmoothie2 
Hey buddy, how’s your blood doing these days? Is it healthy and flowing? Full of oxygen and freshly-made red blood cells? Have you ever even thought about this?! The answer is, not likely. And that is nothing to be ashamed about. We are never really taught to think about our blood, how to nourish and take care of it, how to tell if something is missing. 

When I studied Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) I learned about “blood building”, a term to describe nourishing the body with the nutrients required for ample and healthy blood. For some reason, I took a particular interest in this field, and have been a passionate blood builder of my own ever since. If this sounds dorky (it is) and a little confusing, think of your blood almost like a muscle. We are more familiar with the idea of muscle building, in that our muscles require specific macro and micro nutrients to grow and thrive. Same as blood. Pretty simple, except you can’t do it at the gym – you gotta get in the kitchen. 

The role of blood in our body is to transport nutrients, oxygen, immune cells, and hormones, along with removing toxins and waste, and disperse heat. The components that make up our blood are used and disposed of extremely quickly, so there is a high cell turnover, which also means high al requirements. 

Iron, folic acid, vitamin B-12, and protein are the major building blocks of blood. All of these things work synergistically to make your blood as potent and healthy as possible. Besides folic acid, you can see from the list that most of these nutrients are found abundantly in animal foods, but not so abundantly in the wonderful plant kingdom. So how do vegetarians build blood anyway? 

beetsmoothie4 
First and foremost eating a wide variety of fruits, veggies, legumes, whole grains, nuts, seeds, and superfoods is a good place to start. Hey wait! That sounds like a balanced diet. So if you’re already there, great. If you’re just starting out, your blood is about to get real strong. 

More specifically, the best blood building foods are the darkest of dark leafy greens and their powders, such as spinach, kale, beet greens, wheatgrass, barley grass, spirulina and chlorella, and deeply pigmented red foods such as beets, cherries, raspberries, goji berries, raisins, kidney beans, adzuki beans, and blackstrap molasses. I also find that drinking a cup of nettle tea every day, which contains high amounts of iron, is really effective in helping to tone the blood. 

beetsmoothie3 
This smoothie bowl is a one tasty blood builder. It’s got a solid dose of greens (think iron, folic acid, and protein) from the spinach and wheatgrass, with beet, raspberry and prunes (lots of deep, dark, iron-rich goody goodies!) plus lemon for a vitamin C boost – since we can’t absorb iron from plants unless we have a little help from vitamin C.  

Although you may think that putting raw beetroot in a smoothie is a little odd, I was shocked at how utterly DELICIOUS the combination was with the raspberry. It’s altogether earthy, sweet and tart, with a divine vanilla kiss that makes me swoon. Plus can we talk about the colour?! I can practically feel it feeding my blood with all of those juicy pigments and nutrients. Gosh. Isn’t life grand? 

Smoothie bowls are a divine invention because you can eat them with a spoon, and you can top the heck out of them for a real meal situation. Although I’m sure it’s just a psychological thing, I sometimes feel a bit under-fed after a smoothie in a glass. Plus I like chewing a lot, and chewing a beverage can sometimes be boring without some chunks involved. Don’t you agree? I’ve topped mine here with raspberries, pomegranate, sea buckthorn, bee pollen and almond butter, but get creative with this on your own! I’ve listed some other topping ideas in the recipe. And I will also say that taking just one extra minute to decorate your bowl delivers major self-love points and satisfies the creative genius in us all. There are no wrong answers or unattractive smoothie bowls! Go wild, you strong-blooded creature, you! 

Winter Weekend Cleanse Recipes 

Ginger-Mint Pear Smoothie 
Makes 3 cups / 700ml 

Ingredients (all organic if possible): 
2 pears 
1 avocado, flesh scooped out 
1½ cups / 35g firmly packed baby spinach 
1 cup / 250 ml water 
2 tsp. minced ginger 
1 ½ Tbsp. freshly-squeezed lemon juice 
10-20 mint leaves (to your taste) 

Directions: 
1. Place all ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth. Enjoy. 

Cilantro Spinach Sweet Potato Soup 
Makes 6.5 cups / 1.5 liters 

Ingredients (all organic if possible): 
1 Tbsp. coconut oil 
2 medium onions, chopped 
5 cloves garlic, minced 
1 tsp. sea salt 
3 cups / 700ml water 
2 medium-large sweet potato, scrubbed and cut into 1” cubes 
1 Tbsp. freshly-squeezed lemon juice 
pinch – ¼ tsp. cayenne pepper (to your taste) 
2 cups / 60g cilantro (leaves and tender stems) 
2 cups / 50g firmly packed baby spinach 

Directions: 
1. Heat coconut oil in a large stockpot. Add onions and salt, stir to coat and let cook until onions have softened, about 5-7 minutes. Add garlic, stir, cook 1 minute. Add sweet potato and water. Bring to a boil, reduce to simmer and cook until the sweet potatoes are tender, about 12-15 minutes. 
2. Place soup contents in a blender. Blend on high until smooth, then add spinach, cilantro, lemon and cayenne. Season to taste. Serve and enjoy. Store cooled leftovers in the fridge. 



START RECIPE

A NEW YEAR, A NEW BREAKFAST 
JANUARY 6, 2011 

Happy New Year dear readers! I hope you all had a fabulous holiday and that you’ve started 2011 on the right foot. If not, I’m always here to help ?? 
My big goal for this year is to improve my breakfast routine. Somehow over the last few months I’ve gotten really lazy in the morning, eating copious amounts of the freshly baked bread at work (I still love you), or grabbing a piece of fruit on the go. Either way, I know it’s one place in my diet that could use some improvement. 

One of the most popular foods on the breakfast table in this country is boxed cereal. It’s fast, convenient, moderately filling and inexpensive – I can see the appeal. But cereal that comes in a package with a cartoon tiger on the front is a far cry from the actual grains that were used to make it. Even the definition of the word cereal, which actually refers to the group of grains as a whole, has gone from a natural whole food, to a barely recognizable distant relative with an underwhelming nutrient content that has surely suffered from over processing. Don’t even get me started on all that sugar.  
It’s time for a change, don’t you agree? 

Cereal Extreme Makeover 
I’ve come up with the perfect breakfast solution for those of you who “just don’t have time in the morning”, because you can make a huge batch in one go, dole out the amount you want every day and simply add the toppings you have on hand. It’s the Real Deal Cereal and it’s so simple! The ingredients are inexpensive, easy to find, and of course, delicious. 

I chose a quinoa and millet combination because both are gluten-free grains, and we could all stand to take a break from our wheat-centric diets. Hooray for variety! Remember that quinoa is a good source of iron, calcium, magnesium, and a complete protein. Millet is considered to be one of the least allergenic and most digestible grains available, plus it’s loaded with B-vitamins, phosphorous and potassium. Appropriately, both are warming grains so will help to heat the body during the cold winter months ahead. Indeed. 

You can use any kind of grains to make your breakfast cereal base, but choose grains with relatively similar cooking times. Brown rice, for example, takes about 50 minutes to cook, so it would be best paired with rye or spelt. Amaranth and buckwheat are another excellent gluten-free combo that take about 15 minutes to cook. Experiment with various mixtures that suit your tastes, and change it up from week to week. You can always cook and eat your favorite grain all on its own, but I prefer the range of flavours and textures when they are combined in the same pot. 

Once cooked, store your cooled grain mix in an airtight container in the fridge for five days. I make my mix on lazy Sunday nights, so I have breakfast for the entire work week. It takes about 3-4 minutes to assemble in the morning, and I’m good to go. You can even keep your re-heated grain mix in a thermos to enjoy at work and add your toppings there. 

No more bread, bagel, danish, doughnut binges! No more packaged, processed, frosted, freaky cereal! No more excuses! Let’s do it. 


The Real Deal Cereal  
Grain Mix Base 
1 cup quinoa 
1 cup millet 
4 ½ cups water 
pinch of sea salt 

Directions: 
1. Rinse grains very well. Place in saucepan. Add water and salt. 
2. Bring to a boil, reduce to simmer until water is absorbed, about 20 minutes.  
3. Let cool slightly. Store in a container in the fridge. 

For each portion: 
1 cup cooked grain mix (½ cup for kids) 
¼ cup water or milk (rice, almond, hemp, soy, dairy…) 
¼ tsp. ground cinnamon 
generous pinch ground ginger 
fresh or frozen fruit 
1 Tbsp. maple syrup 
Optional additions: 
1 tsp. chia seeds – Omega-3 fatty acids, protein, fibre, calcium 
1 Tbsp. hemp seeds – Omega-3 + Omega-6 fatty acids, protein 
handful chopped nuts, such as pecans and walnuts 
dollop of yogurt (sugar free) 

Directions: 
1. Measure out one cup of the cooked grain mix and place in a small saucepan with the water or milk. Heat over medium heat until warmed through. Add fruit if frozen, warm until fully thawed. Remove form heat. 
2. Stir in the cinnamon, ginger, and chia and hemp seeds if you have them.  
3. Place grain mix in a bowl, drizzle with maple syrup, add nuts and chopped fresh fruit, plus a dollop of yogurt, if desired. 

I truly hope that this recipe and new system works for you and your family. A healthy start to the day is the best gift you can give yourself, and that does NOT include Count Chocula, Cap’n Crunch, or that weird little leprechaun, if you know what I mean. 


START RECIPE

AUTUMN IN A JAR: FIG JAM WITH LAVENDER, THYME, AND WALNUTS 
OCTOBER 2, 2010 

Autumn is my clandestine lover.  
It’s true that summer is the reliable, constant, and deeply warming season that I look forward to most in the darkness of winter. But fall is full of secrets, it is mysterious and unpredictable, making those last dreamy-hot days with the long amber light so achingly beautiful and met with the utmost gratitude.  
And then there’s the harvest. I find autumn food the most appealing and most healing, as the fruits and vegetables that have been growing for so long have built up an incredible amount of life force having spent months and months connected to the earth, the source of their  and energy. There is a great power in these foods and when prepared in ways that compliment their own life processes (re: sloooooooowwwww), and I find that echoing this slowness enhances their flavour and digestibility. 

This brilliant recipe comes from the book The Savory Way by Deborah Madison who opened the vegetarian restaurant Greens in San Francisco. Her recipes are innovative and sophisticated, yet still accessible. I was totally enamored with the unique combinations of familiar ingredients and flavours, and it seems like she has a real knack for reinventing vegetarian classics. 

This fig jam for example, imparted with rich, autumnal aromas is a study in seduction. The lusciousness of sun-ripened figs, cooked down slowly with honey, woody thyme, and fragrant lavender is enough to entrance me, but throw in those freshly cracked walnuts and I am on my knees. The deep aromatic flavours of each individual ingredient somehow manage to compliment one another in a divine, perfume love potion that is so much more than the sum of its parts. 

Whew. Is it getting hot in here? 


Not Just a Pretty Face 
In my opinion, figs are some of the most sensual fruits on the planet, and anything that sexy must be good for you.
As it turns out, they are a good source of potassium among other things.  
Potassium is especially important in regulating the activity of muscles and nerves. According to World’s Healthiest Foods, “the frequency and degree to which our muscles contract, and the degree to which our nerves become excitable, both depend heavily on the presence of potassium in the right amount.” Interesting. 

So far this spread has been making a regular appearance on some very lucky toast with goat cheese and a slight drizzle of good balsamic vinegar. I can imagine however, that served warm over roasted root vegetables, squash, or on the side of a Brussels sprouts dish would be heaven. And ice cream drenched in the stuff is an obvious choice for those that subscribe to total indulgence. 

I highly recommend you make this. It’s self-love. 

Autumn Fig Jam with Lavender, Thyme, and Walnuts 
Ingredients: 
2 pounds figs (about 3 bets) 
4 thyme branches 
1 tsp. dried lavender, plucked from stem 
pinch of sea salt 
½ cup honey 
¼ cup shelled walnuts, chopped 

Directions: 
1. Remove hard stems from figs, rinse off dust, and then chop them into small pieces, leaving the skins on. 
2. Place figs in a heavy non-corroding saucepan with the thyme, lavender blossoms, sea salt, and honey. Gradually heat: then simmer until the jam is thickened, well flavoured, and the pieces are broken down (cook time will depend greatly on the water content of your figs).  
3. Stir in walnuts and cook another 5 minutes. 
4. Pour jam into sterilized jar and keep refrigerated for up to 2 weeks, or process according to whatever canning method you’re using. 

START RECIPE

BABY STEP BUNS 
MARCH 13, 2010 

*Note: this recipe has been updated! See here. 

I don’t have to try to convince you that home baked bread is better than anything you can buy. It’s a bit of an obsession of mine, in fact – but I am referring to other people’s homemade bread. You see, I have bread-baking fear. Not sure when this started exactly, as I’ve never had a great baking disaster that totally traumatized me. You’d think someone so into bread would have learned how to make it themselves long ago, but no. This is one of those culinary challenges that I have simply avoided, and now the molehill seems like a mountain. Deep breath. Baby steps. 

The bones of this recipe came to me by way of a good friend who, over a cup of tea, boasted that she made fresh bread every morning. Ha! I said. Thanks for making me feel so incredibly inadequate. She assured me however, that if you have time to brush your teeth before bed (which I sure hope you do), then you have time to make bread. She then jotted down some ingredients sans measurements I might add, on a scrap piece of paper and the next night, there I was making dough before I hit the sack. It took all of three minutes (seriously!) and there was no kneading involved and not even a bowl to clean.  

Freaky Bread 
I don’t know how you feel about the bread in the supermarket these days, but I think it’s getting pretty freaky. Have you read the ingredient list on a bag of sliced bread lately? I realize that by compromising taste, texture, and , you get an extra couple hours during your week, but seriously, is it worth it?! I pulled this ingredient list from a standard bagged bread loaf found in a large chain supermarket:
Enriched wheat flour, water, sugar/glucose-fructose, yeast, dehydrated potato flakes (potatoes, monoglycerides, sodium acid pyrophosphate), vegetable oil (canola or soybean), salt, potato starch, wheat gluten, vinegar, calcium propionate, sodium stearoyl-2-lactylate, monoglycerides, acetylated tartaric acid esters of mono and diglycerides, sorbic acid. 

Um, yeah. Without going into too much detail here, we can see that the first ingredient uses a tricky adjective to make ally-void white flour sound healthy, and after water comes sugar. Sugar. I am not even going to tackle the rest – you get it. So stop eating it. 

By baking bread yourself, you control the ingredients and actually end up with a health-supporting food. On a higher level, you can become one step closer to the food you’re eating, and re-connect to the beautiful process that feeds you and your family with so much more than calories. 

Baby Step Buns 
Ingredients: 
3 cups whole grain flour (I use spelt) 
1 cup grain mix* 
2 cups lukewarm warm water (test on your wrist) 
20 g. fresh yeast OR ¾ tsp. dry active yeast 
½ Tbsp. sea salt, plus more for garnish 
2 tsp. olive oil 
nuts and seeds for garnish (optional) 

* You can purchase grain mixes specifically for baking at natural food stores and good grocers, but making your own is easy. You can blend any of your favorite grains, nuts, and seeds together – I like ground flax, rolled oats, sunflower seeds, sesame, rye kernels…you get the idea. 

Directions: 
1. If using fresh yeast, dissolve it in some slightly warm water (not too hot, or you will kill the yeast).  
2. Combine dry ingredients well, then add the water and oil. 
3. Mix with a wooden spoon until well combined – the dough will be very wet, that is how it is supposed to be. Cover with a tea towel and let sit someplace warm overnight (beside a radiator is a good spot). 
4. In the morning, preheat oven to 400F, line a couple baking trays with parchment paper, and spoon dough onto them. You can make these as large or small as you like, mine were about the size of my palm. Sprinkle with nuts and/or seeds and sea salt. 
5. Bake for 30 minutes, or until a tap on the bottom of the buns makes a hollow sound. 

Now, for a little bun taste and texture review: My favorite aspect of these buns is how crispy they are! The crust is delightfully crunchy, but they also manage to maintain a soft center. I think the sesame seeds on top were a very good idea, as they add even more crunch and nutty flavour. They taste really good too. I suppose my only criticism is that they are a little too flat, and once sliced the two halves are just not as substantial as I would like them to be. BUT because I have no idea about bread chemistry I am not sure how to remedy this. Anyone know? 

An Evolution 
I don’t often post recipe “experiments” in the sense that they are still in the experimental stage, but I will admit that these buns are just that. I have NO idea what I am doing, and although winging it seems like a rad idea, I know for a fact that there is lots of room for improvement here. I am excited to see where it goes, and what I will learn along the way. I bet I will look back on these funny little buns someday and laugh at my sweet, baking innocence. But hey, baby steps my friend.  

START RECIPE
BABY STEP BUNS – THE SEQUEL 
APRIL 12, 2010 

Okay, like I said: baby steps. 

Remember how my buns were a little flat and I couldn’t figure out why? Well, I suppose made a slight mistake when I dissolved the yeast in warm water, as this is a ‘cold-rise dough’. Heh. Oops. How was I supposed to know not to kill the little guys?! They also like to eat something sweet (yeah, I know, they are so demanding!), which of course I didn’t do the first time, so squirting a dollop of honey into the water is apparently a good idea. To add insult to injury, I put the dough right up against my blistering-hot radiator, ruining any chance at a decent rise. So don’t do that either. Keep the dough at room temperature. 

I am ridiculous, and I apologize.  
Now please take some baby steps of your own and go make these buns. They are really good. Promise. 

Baby Step Buns 
Ingredients: 
3 cups whole grain flour (I use spelt) 
1 cup grain mix* 
2 cups cold water 
1 tsp. honey 
20 g. fresh yeast OR ¾ tsp. dry active yeast 
½ Tbsp. sea salt, plus more for garnish 
2 tsp. olive oil 
nuts and seeds for garnish (optional) 

* You can purchase grain mixes specifically for baking at natural food stores and good grocers, but making your own is easy. You can blend any of your favorite grains, nuts, and seeds together – I like ground flax, rolled oats, sunflower seeds, sesame, rye kernels…you get the idea. 

Directions: 
1. Dissolve the yeast it in cold water. Add honey.  
2. Combine dry ingredients well, then add the water and oil. 
3. Mix with a wooden spoon until well combined. Cover with a tea towel and let sit at room temperature overnight. 
4. In the morning, preheat oven to 400F, line a couple baking trays with parchment paper, and spoon dough onto them. You can make these as large or small as you like, mine were about the size of my palm. Sprinkle with nuts and/or seeds and sea salt. 
5. Bake for 30 minutes, or until a tap on the bottom of the buns makes a hollow sound. 

Good luck, ya’ll. Tell me how they turn out.  

START RECIPE
BALI BLISS PAPAYA SALAD 
MAY 6, 2014 
papayasalad 

Bali is bliss. It’s not hard to believe we’ve already been here for a couple weeks, as I’ve clearly sunken into a new, slower rhythm and just allowing the days to unfold at their languid pace. I haven’t been this relaxed in…well, I can’t even remember when to be honest. It feels amazing to not have a schedule to follow, to not have any major deadlines looming, no calls to answer. I’ve had to travel halfway across planet earth to find this solace, but I also don’t mind being surrounded by tropical jungle, dazzling green rice fields, rivers, and volcanoes, and sparkling starry skies. 

Bali has a kind of beauty to it, unlike anything I’ve ever experienced before. It is rich, mesmeric, mysterious. Everywhere you go, you are greeted with wafts of burning incense, floral offerings, and the sounds of flowing water. Spirituality and everyday life are intertwined, and god seems to be truly in the details. 

papayasalad4 

The food? As wonderful as it is to eat at restaurants (don’t do much of that in Copenhagen), I’ve actually been cooking a lot. Surprise! We’ve rented a house with a rather makeshift, but functioning kitchen, and the one-burner hot plate and I have become well acquainted during my experiments with all of the local produce. My family and I head out around 7am to the morning market, and for pennies fill our bags with all sorts of unusual fruits and veggies, then head home to play with it all. 

The other groovy thing about where we are staying is the front yard full of fruit trees and coconut palms. There are papaya growing – no, bulging – off of their trunks. Fruit larger then my six-month-old baby (and he’s a big boy). The housekeeper picked one for me upon my request and it sat ripening on my counter for a couple days until I knew it was time. Total. Bliss-fest. You couldn’t take me to the fanciest restaurant and see me more excited than eating that silly, homegrown papaya. Truly. 

papayasalad5 

As much as papaya is perfect all on its own, the flavours around me beg to be enjoyed. This was a simple breakfast I tossed together with fresh ingredients I had just picked up at the market: kaffir lime, ginger, and freshly grated coconut (wow, nothing like it!). It is all together sweet, citric, spicy and rich – a delicious combination for starting your day on the right foot, or maybe an afternoon pick-me-up. 

Papaya Paradise Party 
Papaya are buttery, rich, satisfying, and a delicious taste of the tropics, but are available in most grocery stores throughout the year. 

Papayas contain a cornucopia of nutrients, its most unique being papain. Papain is a digestive enzyme that helps digest proteins, similar to the bromelain found in pineapple. If you take digestive supplements, yours will likely contain papain. 

Papaya is rich in antioxdants, such as carotenes, vitamin C and flavanoids, folic and pantothenic acid, as well as the minerals copper, potassium and magnesium. These nutrients all add up to major cardiovascular protection, due to their ability to prevent the oxidation of cholesterol. Papaya’s vitamins, minerals and antioxidants also provide immune support, promote digestive health, and protect against macular degeneration and rheumatoid arthritis. 

Much like bananas, papaya contains a substance called chitinase, which is associated with the latex-fruit allergy syndrome. If you have a latex allergy, you should avoid eating papaya (and banana too). 

papayasalad3 

If you cannot find kaffir limes, regular lime would be fine of course. Kaffir limes tend to be smaller, so if you are using regular lime, just one would likely be enough for the recipe below. And if you can’t get yourself to a Balinese market and have someone grind your coconut for you this morning, no worries, just use shredded desiccated coconut in its place. You can even lightly toast it if your heart desires. 

The recipe for this salad is rather loose. I’ve added some rough measurements, but the dressing here depends greatly on the size of your papaya, so just use the ingredients below as a guideline and make the dish to suit your taste. If you like a more citric flavour, go heavy on the limejuice: if you like it spicy, add more ginger, etc. I also drizzled in some local virgin coconut oil, which had the most incredible coconut taste, but this is entirely up to you. Keep in mind that the fat in the coconut and coconut oil will only help in absorbing the carotenes in the papaya. 

Bali Bliss Papaya Salad 
Serves 2-4 

Ingredients: 
1 large papaya (mine was approx. 2lbs / 1kg) 
½ cup freshly grated or unsweetened desiccated coconut 
1-2 organic limes 
2-3 tsp. finely minced ginger, to taste 
pinch sea salt 
2 tsp. honey, to taste (or any liquid sweetener) 
1 Tbsp. virgin coconut oil, melted (optional) 

Directions: 
1. Rinse the papaya well. Slice through the entire fruit lengthwise, the scoop out the seeds. Cut off both ends from each half. Stand one of the halves on its flat end and slice off the skin starting at the top and running down to the base. Repeat with other half. Next slice the papaya across into 1-inch sections, and then into 1-inch cubes. Place in a large bowl. 
2. Rinse the lime and zest it with a microplane or box grater on the finest setting. Whisk together the ginger, lime zest, lime juice, honey, and salt. Add the coconut oil, if desired. Pour dressing over the papaya just before serving, add desiccated coconut, and fold gently to combine. Enjoy immediately. 
I served the salad with some sliced bananas on the side, and garnished with lime halves.  

START RECIPE
BEET, RASPBERRY AND VANILLA SMOOTHIE BOWL 
NOVEMBER 13, 2015 
beetsmoothie2 
Hey buddy, how’s your blood doing these days? Is it healthy and flowing? Full of oxygen and freshly-made red blood cells? Have you ever even thought about this?! The answer is, not likely. And that is nothing to be ashamed about. We are never really taught to think about our blood, how to nourish and take care of it, how to tell if something is missing. 

When I studied Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) I learned about “blood building”, a term to describe nourishing the body with the nutrients required for ample and healthy blood. For some reason, I took a particular interest in this field, and have been a passionate blood builder of my own ever since. If this sounds dorky (it is) and a little confusing, think of your blood almost like a muscle. We are more familiar with the idea of muscle building, in that our muscles require specific macro and micro nutrients to grow and thrive. Same as blood. Pretty simple, except you can’t do it at the gym – you gotta get in the kitchen.  

The role of blood in our body is to transport nutrients, oxygen, immune cells, and hormones, along with removing toxins and waste, and disperse heat. The components that make up our blood are used and disposed of extremely quickly, so there is a high cell turnover, which also means high al requirements. 

Iron, folic acid, vitamin B-12, and protein are the major building blocks of blood. All of these things work synergistically to make your blood as potent and healthy as possible. Besides folic acid, you can see from the list that most of these nutrients are found abundantly in animal foods, but not so abundantly in the wonderful plant kingdom. So how do vegetarians build blood anyway? 

beetsmoothie4 
First and foremost eating a wide variety of fruits, veggies, legumes, whole grains, nuts, seeds, and superfoods is a good place to start. Hey wait! That sounds like a balanced diet. So if you’re already there, great. If you’re just starting out, your blood is about to get real strong. 

More specifically, the best blood building foods are the darkest of dark leafy greens and their powders, such as spinach, kale, beet greens, wheatgrass, barley grass, spirulina and chlorella, and deeply pigmented red foods such as beets, cherries, raspberries, goji berries, raisins, kidney beans, adzuki beans, and blackstrap molasses. I also find that drinking a cup of nettle tea every day, which contains high amounts of iron, is really effective in helping to tone the blood. 

beetsmoothie3 
This smoothie bowl is a one tasty blood builder. It’s got a solid dose of greens (think iron, folic acid, and protein) from the spinach and wheatgrass, with beet, raspberry and prunes (lots of deep, dark, iron-rich goody goodies!) plus lemon for a vitamin C boost – since we can’t absorb iron from plants unless we have a little help from vitamin C.  

Although you may think that putting raw beetroot in a smoothie is a little odd, I was shocked at how utterly DELICIOUS the combination was with the raspberry. It’s altogether earthy, sweet and tart, with a divine vanilla kiss that makes me swoon. Plus can we talk about the colour?! I can practically feel it feeding my blood with all of those juicy pigments and nutrients. Gosh. Isn’t life grand? 

Smoothie bowls are a divine invention because you can eat them with a spoon, and you can top the heck out of them for a real meal situation. Although I’m sure it’s just a psychological thing, I sometimes feel a bit under-fed after a smoothie in a glass. Plus I like chewing a lot, and chewing a beverage can sometimes be boring without some chunks involved. Don’t you agree? I’ve topped mine here with raspberries, pomegranate, sea buckthorn, bee pollen and almond butter, but get creative with this on your own! I’ve listed some other topping ideas in the recipe. And I will also say that taking just one extra minute to decorate your bowl delivers major self-love points and satisfies the creative genius in us all. There are no wrong answers or unattractive smoothie bowls! Go wild, you strong-blooded creature, you! 

The Blood Building Beetroot, Raspberry and Vanilla Smoothie Bowl 
Serves 1 

Ingredients: 
1 small beet, peeled and chopped 
1 cup raspberries, fresh or frozen (I use frozen) 
2 cups packed / 45g spinach 
3 prunes, soaked in 1/2 cup / 125ml water 
small wedge organic lemon (including the peel!) 
1-2 scoops protein powder (I use sprouted brown rice or pumpkin seed protein powders) 
1-2 tsp. wheatgrass powder (or spirulina / chlorella) 
a generous pinch ground vanilla powder (or 1 tsp. vanilla extract) 
1/2 cup water or milk of choice 

Toppings pictured: 
rozen raspberries 
pomegranate seeds 
sea buckthorn berries 
bee pollen 
raw almond butter 

Other topping ideas: 
sliced fresh fruit 
fresh berries 
hemp seeds 
toasted nuts and / or seeds 
chia 
unsweetened coconut 
granola 
cacao nibs 
goji berries 

Directions: 
1. Soak prunes overnight in water, or for a minimum of one hour. 

2. Pour the soaked prunes and their liquid into a blender. Add all remaining ingredients and blend on high until completely smooth (if you do not have a high-speed blender, this may take a minute or so). Taste and adjust sweetness / vanilla / lemon as desired. 

3. Pour contents into a glass or bowl and garnish with desired toppings. Enjoy! 

START RECIPE
BIRCHER MUESLI WITH SPICED STRAWBERRY SAUCE 
JUNE 14, 2012 

As the weather warms up, my food cools down. This seems to happen every single year without my even noticing. A couple weeks ago while blending up a green smoothie, I realized that the seasons must be shifting because my body is suddenly ing for different foods. 

Besides frosty drinks and fresh fruit, I have been getting back into Bircher muesli, or as it is also known, overnight oats. This is a perfect summertime breakfast – light, raw, and refreshing, yet filling at the same time. If you like a warm bowl of oatmeal porridge in the colder months, I think Bircher muesli will be right up your alley for this time of year. And if you’re a particularly busy person, you’ll also fall in love with the incredibly simple prep that leaves you all that extra time in the morning for eating instead of fussing about in the kitchen (or an extra hit of the snooze button). 

Bircher muesli was invented in Switzerland by a physician named Maximilian Bircher-Benner. Bircher-Benner had this ‘crazy idea’ of feeding convalescing patients raw vegetables and fruits, nuts and whole grains as a means to heal them – a practice contrary to many of the beliefs held at the end of the 19th century. Inspired by observing the simple, healthy life of Swiss shepherds, he also believed that people are most balanced living in harmony with nature. What a nut job. 

Okay, enough sarcasm.  I genuinely love this breakfast because it is so easy, so satisfying and so very, very good for you. Quite simply, Bircher muesli involves soaking oats in a liquid (milk, water, yogurt), placing them in the fridge overnight, and eating them in the morning. If you like eating raw foods for breakfast, but do not always feel “full” after, this is the perfect meal to try because it satiates with high-quality carbohydrates and plenty of whole grain fiber. You can dress overnight oats up however you like with nuts, seeds, coconut, fresh fruit, superfoods, jam, honey, maple syrup, yogurt etc. For this recipe I made a raw strawberry sauce that is similar to a jam, but without any processed sugar. I usually add this to the oats in the morning, but if I know that I have to get up and go first thing, I will layer it all in a jar the night before and take with me on the run. So convenient and delicious! If you are kind of person that doesn’t like to eat as soon as you wake up, this is a perfect solution too. Take the container of soaked oats to work and wait until you’re really hungry to enjoy – this is the healthiest thing to do anyway, as we should never eat before our body gives us true hunger signals. 

Get on the soaking grains train! 
If you’ve been a reader of My New Roots for a while, you’ll be familiar with my enthusiasm for soaking nuts, seeds, legumes, and grains before eating them (you can read more about that here and here). Bircher muesli of course takes advantage of this process, which aids greatly in digestion and the absorption of vitamins and minerals. Here is an excerpt from Nourishing Traditions about soaking grains, written by one of my favorite authors and experts on traditional foods, Sally Fallon: 

All grains contain phytic acid (an organic acid in which phosphorous is bound) in the outer layer or bran. Untreated phytic acid can combine with calcium, magnesium, copper, iron especially zinc in the intestinal track and block their absorption. This is why a diet high in unfermented whole grains may led to serious mineral deficiencies and bone loss. The modern misguided practice of consuming large amounts of unprocessed bran often improves colon transit time at first but may lead to irritable bowel syndrome and, in the long term, many other adverse effects. Soaking allows enzymes, lactobacilli and other helpful organisms to break down and neutralize phytic acid. As little as seven hours of soaking in acidulated water will neutralize a large portion of phytic acid in grains. The simple practice of soaking cracked or rolled cereal grains overnight will vastly improve their al benefits. 



There are many variations on Bircher muesli, or overnight oats, but I will give you my simple version. Feel free to play with the recipe to achieve a final product that works for you. I really like adding chia seeds to the oats before soaking because they absorb so much of the liquid and create a lovely, pudding-like consistency. Chia also boosts the al value of the breakfast bowl with Omega-3 essential fats, protein, antioxidants, extra fiber, as well as calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, manganese, copper, iron, molybdenum, niacin, and zinc. 

This is one of the most versatile and satisfying raw breakfasts I know of – definitely one to try for anyone who needs a lot of energy to get them through the morning all the way to lunchtime. 



Bircher Muesli 
Serves 1 
Ingredients: 
2/3 cup oats or any other whole, rolled grain 
1 cup milk of your choice (I like Brazil nut, almond, or hemp) or water 
a dash of freshly squeezed lemon juice (½ tsp.) 
2 Tbsp. chia seeds 

Directions: 
1. Fold all ingredients together in a jar or bowl, place in the fridge overnight. 
2. In the morning, remove muesli from the fridge and let stand at room temperature for 10 minutes if desired. Layer in more milk, yogurt, and the Spiced Strawberry Sauce with more fresh fruit. Enjoy. 

I was most definitely moved to create a seasonal sauce for the Bircher muesli because although it is delicious on its own, it has a relatively neutral flavour that acts as a base for so much more! And seeing as the Danish strawberries are now available, I couldn’t help but use them. This sauce is insanely delicious. The sweetness of the berries explodes onto a background of warming spices, vanilla, and citrus. It is bright and bold, clean and complex – a truly addictive condiment. I made an entire batch and ended up “accidentally” eating all of it in one sitting because I could not put it down. Ahem. While sitting alone in my kitchen, silently plowing through this gorgeous creation, I came up with all sorts of other uses for it besides just eating it out of the jar. I know that Spiced Strawberry Sauce would get along famously with pancakes, yogurt, ice cream, and it would make an incredible filling for my Almond Butter and Jam Sandwich Cookies. Get creative or remain lazy – any way you eat it will be delicious. 


Spiced Strawberry Sauce 
Makes 6-8 servings 
Ingredients: 
1kg/2 pounds organic strawberries 
zest of ½ organic orange 
1/2 vanilla bean, scraped 
2 cardamom pods 
1 star anise 
1 black peppercorn (optional) 
1 teeny pinch sea salt 
1/4 tsp. ground ginger 
1/4 tsp. ground cinnamon 
1 Tbsp. raw honey or agave 

Directions: 
1. Wash and cut the strawberries in half, or into quarters depending on their size. Place in a large jar or container. Add all other ingredients and using a muddler or a large spoon, smash the berries extracting their juices, but leaving some of the whole. Be sure to crush the whole spices too (you may want to use a mortar and pestle before placing them in the jar). 
2. Cover with an airtight lid and place in the fridge to marinate (at least an hour). Keeps for a week. Serve with Bircher muesli, or on pancakes, yogurt, ice cream etc. 

Seeing as there are so many versions of Bircher muesli out there, I would love to hear your suggestions on toppings and add-ins! What do you like to put in/on your overnight oats? Leave your suggestions in the comments section. Thanks! 


START RECIPE

BIRTHDAYS, LAYER CAKES, AND THE TRUTH 
OCTOBER 1, 2013 
bdaysandwich 

I had a birthday last Friday. I’m sure that you were expecting a cake. Well, I was too. 

So here’s what happened: I had my heart set on making a carrot cake this year. I wanted it to be the tastiest, not-bad-for-you carrot cake ever, chock full of awesomeness like dried pineapple chunks, walnuts, coconut, raisins – the works! And I wanted to top it all off with a vegan, sugar-free, gluten-free, quinoa-based frosting (yup, you read that correctly) that would blow the pants off of any classic ol’ cream cheese number. I had all the ingredients in place, a seemingly solid recipe plan, a couple days to pull it off, and impossibly high expectations. 

I knew I’d run into a problem the moment I sliced into the cake to frost it. Even though my toothpick had slid in and out without so much as a moist crumb on it just hours before, my knife was now almost stuck in a dense swamp of carrot cake glop. I panicked. I decided to open it up all the way to see what was wrong, revealing not just two halves of undercooked cake, but some bizarrely-textured sponge resembling pudding. The outside was a picture of carrot cake perfection – the inside, a confusing, sad, unsalvageable mess. Oh. My. Gourd. 

I was in denial for sometime, thinking I could just “toast” it, but then it just got crusty and dry on the outside, while remaining a carrot bog in the middle. And the icing, which was so delicious, creamy and dare I say it, revolutionary, the night before, had turned into an acrid, unpalatable ointment. I thought that I could perhaps just take photos of the cake, because it could have fooled anyone from its outward appearance that great things were going on, then re-jig the recipe, go back to the store, and start over. 

But what kind of person, may I , makes a birthday cake for themselves from a place of panic, and desperation? When I spoke to my friend, a very talented chef, about my carrot cake-tastrophe, she looked at me sympathetically and ed why I was being so hard on myself, inventing a brand-new cake recipe and thinking I could get it right on the first go? I broke down and realized that I was not in fact, a classically-trained culinary robot, but a human. A stubborn, determined, and very pregnant human at that, who feels an immense responsibility to her loyal readers to produce a dazzling recipe every week, but one who could also admit defeat. For the time being anyway. 

Which leads me to the recipe. And the truth. 

bdaysandwich4 

For as many birthdays as I can recall, I’ve made myself a very special breakfast to start the day off right. Inspired by the infamous vice of Elvis himself, I’ve brought together the goodness of bread, banana and nut butter in a hot pan, to make a spectacularly gooey treat that would make anyone feel celebratory. When I realized with great dismay that the cake could not be saved, all I wanted was this sandwich. And so I made it. And it was perfect. 

Although I have a couple recipes for nut butter up on My New Roots, I haven’t given you one for a mixed nut butter (a.k.a. Party Nut Butter) or a chocolate version yet. If you are especially into Nutella, or any variation of it, you’ll really appreciate what I’m sharing with you today. 

bdaysandwich3 

As a side note, I have tried making chocolate nut butter with liquid sweeteners before and it is not all that successful. You see, the fat in nuts is hydrophobic, meaning quite literally, that is afraid of water. When adding honey or maple syrup to sweeten the chocolate paste, the whole concoction seizes up and becomes an un-spreadable (however delicious) unyielding mass. This is perfect for rolling up into little truffles or something, but not for spreading on toast, or fresh fruit, or yogurt, or your finger. A dry sweetener will work however, which is why I have chosen coconut sugar. It blends perfectly into the nut butter without causing it to seize up and remain so delightfully oozy. 

bdaysandwich2 
Print recipe     
Grilled Banana and Nut Butter Birthday Sandwiches 
Serves 1 
Ingredients: 
2 slices wholegrain sourdough bread 
1 ripe banana 
1 Tbsp. each party nut butter and chocolate nut butter 
a little ghee, butter, or coconut oil 
a pinch of sea salt 
honey, to taste if desired 

Directions: 
1. Spread your fat of choice on one side of each slice of bread. On the other side spread your choice of nut butter. Slice the banana and place on top of the nut butter, drizzle with honey and sprinkle with sea salt if desired. Place halves together. 
2. In a preheated pan over low-medium heat, place the buttered side of bread down and cook until golden. Although it is tempting to blast the sandwich with heat to cook it faster, this will only result in burnt toast and a cold interior. Slow, low-heat cooking is the key to this sandwich. 
3. When the bottom of the sandwich is golden, flip and repeat on the other side. The sandwich is ready when the middle  of the sandwich should be gooey and warm 
Ingredients: 
Party Nut Butter & Chocolate Party Nut Butter 
1 ¾ cup / 200g hazelnuts 
1 ½ cups / 200g almonds 
¾ cup / 70g pecans 
sea salt to taste 
cinnamon to taste, if desired 
raw cacao powder 
coconut sugar 

Directions: 
1. Preheat oven to 300°F/150°C. Spread the nuts out in a single layer on baking sheet and roast for 20-30 minutes until fragrant and slightly darker in colour (a good way to check is to bite one in half and check the colour in the center. Instead of white, it should be golden). Remove from oven and let cool completely. If you are using pecans, remove them from the oven a little earlier than the other nuts, as they cook faster. 
2. Transfer all the cooled nuts to a food processor and blend on highest setting for 1-2 minutes to finely grind them to a powder. Scrape down the sides of the container. Continue to process the nuts an additional 1-2 minutes until the oils start to be released, and a smooth, creamy, runny paste is formed. 
3. To make the nut butter chocolate flavoured, simply add raw cacao and coconut sugar by the teaspoon until the desired chocolatey-ness and sweetness has been achieved. 
4. Transfer the nut butter to an airtight glass container and store in the refrigerator. Keeps for 1 month. 

Note: This recipe makes a lot of nut butter – I actually took half the regular nut butter out of the food processor and turned the rest into chocolate nut butter. And then I had two kinds of nut butter. And that made me happy. 


So there you have it: my real birthday indulgence and the truth of it all. Food blogging is really hard sometimes. Although I always want to impress and delight you, I am just a regular gal experimenting in her kitchen, with no real background or experience in this stuff – just a steadfast obsession – and sometimes that just isn’t the right trait to make a perfect cake on the first try. 
I learned a very important lesson last week, which is to be gentler with myself and to forgive my humanness. Sometimes it stings a little to face the truth – that the earth-moving carrot cake didn’t turn out just so – and all I can do is soothe it with the knowledge that I really, really tried. A grilled banana nut butter sandwich doesn’t hurt either. 

Lots of love and gentle humanness, 
Sarah B 


START RECIPE

BLACK QUINOA CORN MUFFINS 
MARCH 17, 2011 

Sometimes it’s so easy. Writing a recipe, that is. 
I started meditating on cornbread months ago back in California, where I mowed down on my fair share of the golden goodness. Lucky enough to be in a place where people don’t believe in gluten, the goat milk is raw, the ghee is flowing, and the corn is grown 50 meters from the kitchen, I repeat: I ate a lot of cornbread. Inspiration ensued, especially upon returning to Denmark – land of no cornbread. 

We all know that I am always looking for a challenge, a way to (foolishly?) take something that is already delicious and healthy and make it even better. This cornbread has gone through five, count ‘em FIVE incarnations. What kept me going you ? Stubbornness? Stupidity? The projected moment of total bliss when I nibble that first bite of corny perfection? All of the above. I can’t quite believe how far I went for you cornbread, but now you are so high-vibe it was worth the fight. Gluten-free, sugar-free, dairy-free, egg-free, wheat-free, soy-free – and after all that you are NOT flavour-free! I did it. Fist. Pump. 


Corn: Your queries answered. 
1. GMOs – Hot Topic! The first thing I gotta address with corn, is of course, GMOs. It is common knowledge and of wide concern that a large percentage of the conventionally grown corn in the United States and Canada come from genetically modified (GM) seeds. Boo. If you are looking your exposure to GM foods, choose organically grown corn, since the current USDA organic regulations prohibit the use of GM seeds for growing foods to be labeled as organically grown. Yay. Some conscious food manufacturers are now using non-GMO corn and labeling their products as such, which is also helpful for those of us who don’t want to be treated like a science project. I still feel that it is better to purchase organically, as this will also support healthier agricultural practices.  
If you live in Europe, all GM products are labeled, including imported foodstuffs. Even if the product is not certified organic, it still must indicate if it contains more than 0.5% GM ingredients. 

2. Allergies – Yes, corn is very allergenic, and sadly, increasingly difficult to avoid. If you chose to eat a whole-foods diet, you can steer clear of the incredible amount of corn-derived additives in everything from soft drinks to chicken-fried steak, but if you like your TV dinners, you can bet you’re getting a good dose of corn without ever nearing a single kernel. That being said, you can even gain exposure to corn through some envelopes and stamp glue, plastic food wrappers, bath soap, emollient cream, toothpaste, bath powder, mouthwash, liquid medication, and dietary supplements. Yikes! 
To prevent developing an allergy or sensitivity to corn, or to manage an existing one, it is imperative to read the labels of everything you expose your body to, both internally and externally to prevent yourself from ingesting corn on a regular basis (i.e. every single day). Once in a while it is totally cool to eat corn – it is so darn tasty after all.  
If you suspect you may have food allergies or insensitivities, pay close attention to how you feel after eating corn, or ingesting corn-containing products.  
Sorry, was that scary? On to the good news! 

3.  – Corn and milled cornmeal contain a whole host of vital nutrients such as calcium, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, manganese, folate, vitamin C and vitamin B1 (thiamine). It is also a good source of dietary fiber.  
New research published in October’s issue of the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry reveals significant health benefits in milled yellow corn products, such as corn meal, grits and corn flour. The study, authored by Mario Ferruzzi, Ph.D., associate professor, department of food science, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind., demonstrates milled yellow corn products are rich in antioxidants, especially carotenoids, such as lutein. Carotenoids are yellow and orange plant pigments known for their association in the prevention of chronic diseases including cancer, cardiovascular disease and macular degeneration. 
Though high in protein, corn itself is not an adequate protein source. It lacks two essential amino acids required to be a complete protein: lysine and tryptophan. But don’t worry about that ya’ll – I actually made up for this amino acid deficiency by including quinoa for lysine and chia for tryptophan. You see? It may just seem like a run-of-the-mill recipe, but I am so behind-the-scenes making sure to cover all the bases. It’s not just about the taste, it’s about the .  
You can also make up for the lysine and tryptophan by eating corn with legumes (hence the classic corn-and-beans combo) or rice. 


As I have already mentioned, this recipe did not come together all that easily (understatement of the year), but I am quite pleased with the final result: a moist, rich, savory cake, beautifully golden and studded with black quinoa, green cilantro and red chilies. Soooo pretty. If you cannot find black quinoa, use whatever kind you have on hand – this recipe is actually the perfect way to use up leftover quinoa from last night’s dinner!  
Don’t forgo the chia seeds – they are a key ingredient here, as they act as the binder in place of eggs. If you don’t have chia seeds on hand and you would like to use eggs instead, 2 would be sufficient. Happy baking…and please let me know how they turn out for you! 


Black Quinoa Corn Muffins 
Ingredients: 
1 cup organic corn meal 
¼ cup organic corn flour 
1 cup cooked black quinoa (any colour will work) 
1 Tbsp. baking powder 
1/2 tsp. baking soda 
3/4 tsp. sea salt 
1 cup almond milk (or any milk) 
3 Tbsp. chia seeds + 9 Tbsp. water 
1/4 up high oleic sunflower oil (or oil of your choice) 
1 Tbsp. honey 
1/2 cup cilantro leaves, chopped  
1 chili, minced or ½ tsp. ground chipotle (optional) 

Directions: 
1. Preheat oven to 400F (200C). Put 8 muffin liners in a cupcake pan.  
1. Mix chia seeds and water in a small bowl and set aside.  
2. In a large bowl, sift dry ingredients together. Add the cooked quinoa. 
3. Check the chia gel to make sure it is thick a gloppy (it should take 15 minutes or so to obtain the right consistency). In a separate bowl, whisk wet ingredients together, including the chia gel.  
4. Add the wet to the dry and combine in as few strokes as possible. Fold in the cilantro and minced chili.  
5. Spoon batter in to muffins cups and bake until the edges are golden brown and they pass the toothpick test (approx. 25 minutes). 

Remember last month when I posted that awesome black bean and sweet potato soup recipe? Yeah. I mentioned that it would taste really good alongside some cornbread, and this is the very recipe I was “working the kinks out of”. This means that you need to make black bean soup immediately. They are best friends. Please let them play together. 



START RECIPE

BLUEBERRY BASIL SMOOTHIE + SOY-FREE PROTEIN SMOOTHIE BOOSTS 
AUGUST 2, 2013 
bsmoothie 
It’s never officially summer until I arrive in Canada. Before the first embrace at the airport from my parents, before long nights in front of a bonfire, before the St. Lawrence River swallows me whole, I cannot truly feel like it’s time to slow down and embrace the season. 

And so I am here. Even in between all the work I have to do, I am finding hours to just be. As I write this, I am looking out on the seaway, easing its way east towards the ocean past all the tiny islands that shelter my earliest childhood memories. Being at the cottage grounds me in ways I can never fully understand or articulate, but it does my body and soul good to be here. 

I actually wasn’t really sure what to write about this week, but seeing as I’ve been overdosing on smoothies lately, it seemed only appropriate to post one of my latest blended creations. Plus my belly is steadily swelling I am more occupied than ever with getting enough protein in my diet to fuel this little baby’s growth and development. I’ve come up with a great guide of vegetarian protein boosters for smoothies that don’t include soy. Hooray! Fascinating stuff, I tell ya. 

I was busy working on some new recipes with my mother-turned-sous-chef the other day and we so happily stumbled into a galaxy of blueberries just outside the cottage kitchen door. Along with the basil snipped freshly from our own backyard, this amazing smoothie was born. I had never really thought about combining these two flavours before but it is really delicious! Super refreshing and bright. 

protein 

Soy-free Protein Boosters for Smoothies 

Sprouted Nuts 
Soaking or “sprouting” nuts before you eat them not only makes them a lot easier to blend up in a smoothie, but massively increases their digestive qualities and nutrient content. Simply by placing a handful of nuts in water overnight, their complex protein chains are broken down into separate amino acids, making their protein easier to digest and assimilate. 

Some of my favorite nuts to add to smoothies are almonds, brazil nuts, macadamia nuts and cashews. Make sure you purchase the nuts raw. Discard the soaking water and rinse them very well before consuming. 

To learn more about the process and importance of soaking nuts, see my article here. 

Dark Leafy Greens 
Calorie for calorie, dark leafy greens are some of the most nutrient-dense foods on the planet. And if you’re skeptical about their protein content, consider the fact that some of the largest and strongest mammals on earth are vegetarian. 

I like to blend kale and spinach into my smoothies when I need a boost of protein, and also vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients. I find that these two greens taste the best and break down fairly easily, avoiding any grittiness. 

Protein Powder 
I don’t always put protein powder in my smoothies, but I like it on occasion if I need a real boost and if my diet has been lacking in protein that particular day. I can often “hide” nearly one third of my daily intake in just one drink, which is convenient and tasty. 

There is so much to discuss when it comes to protein powder, since there are some really great choices out there and some serious gobbledygook. 

But, how does one pick a high-quality product without a lot of additives, and which source of protein is best? I stick to plant-based protein sources that don’t include any soy, such as hemp seed, pumpkin seed, sprouted gluten-free grain, and pea. These foods are dehydrated and pulverized, and often combined with stevia for sweetness or with a bonus of superfoods, such as spirulina or chlorella. The basic rule is one that applies to anything that comes in package: if you don’t recognize or can’t pronounce the ingredients on the label, don’t buy it – good quality protein powders will have only whole food ingredients! I also make sure that the ingredients are organic and non-GMO. 

Here is an extensive and well-researched article on various brands of soy-free vegan protein powders. This girl certainly did her taste-testing…thanks Kathy! 

Hemp Hearts 
Hemp protein is totally remarkable, as it is complete (meaning it contains all 20 amino acids, including the 9 essential ones), something not so easy to find in plant-based protein, making it an ideal choice for vegetarians and vegans. The protein in hemp is also highly digestible and easily absorbed by the body. Especially perfect for post-workout recovery, hemp is a good source of branch-chained amino acids, needed for repair and growth of lean body tissue. Two tablespoons of hemp hearts contain approximately seven grams of protein. 

Hemp hearts add a creaminess to smoothies, which I love. Make sure to buy the hulled hemp hearts, and not the ones in the shell (see pictured). 

Bee Pollen 
Most people aren’t aware of just how much protein is in bee pollen, but it is in fact the richest animal source of protein trumping beef, eggs and dairy of equal weight. Bee pollen is 40% protein and contains free amino acids that are easily digested and absorbed by the body. In addition, bee pollen contains enzymes to aid digestion, vitamins, minerals, trace minerals and phytonutrtients. 

Bee pollen has a floral flavour and is really delicious in fruit-based smoothies. If you are new to using bee pollen, start off with just a little bit and work your way up over the course of a few weeks. It is a very powerful food that your body need time to adjust to. 

To learn more about bee pollen, see my article here. 

Spirulina and Chlorella 
Spirulina and chlorella are both algae, and their protein content cannot be beat! Spirulina contains roughly 60-70% protein by weight, and chlorella hovers around 60%. Although they are not the tastiest of foods, a little goes a long way and they blend beautifully into smoothies.  
Start small, with half a teaspoon and work your way up to one or two teaspoons (if you can stand the taste). 

To learn more about the benefits of chlorella, see my article here. 

Nut or Seed Butter 
A convenient and delicious way to boost the protein in your smoothies is to add nut and seed butters. Two tablespoons of almond butter contain about 6 grams of protein and tahini is around 5 grams. 

I often blend nut or seed butter with water to start off my smoothie, which makes a “cheater’s nut milk”, then add the other ingredients. 

Rolled Oats 
Oats are a surprising source of protein – a half a cup containing around six grams. If you are using rolled oats in a smoothie, make sure to soak them first to increase their digestibility. Soaking also helps the oats blend up into a creamy textured delight. I love the thickness that comes from adding soaked oats to a smoothie – it’s a real meal in a glass! 

For best results, use whole grain rolled oats instead of instant. 

bsmoothie2 

Print recipe     

Favorite Blueberry Basil Protein Smoothie 
Serves 1 
Ingredients: 
1 cup blueberries, fresh or frozen 
1 frozen banana 
5-7 large basil leaves 
1 Tbsp. tahini, almond butter, or other nut butter 
1-3 tsp. bee pollen (depending on how often you use it) 
2 Tbsp. hemp seeds 
1 handful of greens (spinach and kale are good choices) 
water or milk of choice to thin, as needed 

Directions: 
1. Put all ingredients in a blender and blend on high until smooth and creamy. Enjoy immediately. 

I am very excited to announce that, after much inquiry, I am holding the second annual My New Roots Potluck Picnic in the Park! After such a successful event last summer and meeting SO many amazing people (not to mention the incredible food!) I just had to throw another one. 

Come join us in Toronto at Trinity Bellwoods Park – we’ll be located at the north-west corner of the park at Dundas and Shaw corner. Come for 6:00pm and bring your yummiest vegan dish to impress – bonus for gluten-free recipes too! No, you certainly do not have to make a recipe from My New Roots, as we all want to taste something new and exciting (but if you have an absolute favourite, I won’t complain either). Please feel free to bring friends as well, or show up solo and make some new ones in three or four minutes. We’re all coming out for healthy, tasty food so you’ll be in good company! 



START RECIPE

BREAKFAST BUCKWHEAT FLORENTINES 
APRIL 28, 2017 
IMG_9614 

“Done is better than perfect.” 

I can’t tell you how many times I repeat this to myself on a daily basis, as a sort of mantra to soothe and convince the perfectionist inside me to just follow through. To just put it out there. 

I almost pushed “publish” on this blog post yesterday afternoon, but something was holding me back. Two things, in fact. First, the photos weren’t what I wanted them to be: they were on the boring side without a lot of colour, and not really inspiring. Second, the recipe itself just wasn’t there. I was trying to make a vegan yogurt coating with coconut butter and although it was tasty, the texture was all wrong: chunky and gritty. Was it good enough? Probably. Would anyone have noticed what I saw as shortcomings? Probably not. But could I deal with it? Apparently, no.

florentines2

As I was putting the finishing touches on the post, it hit me like a bolt of lightening: I needed to use cashew butter to achieve the silky consistency I was after. Noooo! It was the solution I had been calling in, but to arrive at the witching hour just seemed cruel. How could I start all over at this point? Was I crazy to even try, considering I didn’t know for sure that it would work out? With only minutes to make a decision, I hopped on my bike and cycled to the health food store. Again. Cursing myself, my brain, my ridiculous inability to know when to let go, and my insistence that what I put out in the world is my absolute best, really started to annoy me. 

I bought all the ingredients for the third time, raced home, and got to work. The cookies were the best they’d ever been. Perfect, in fact. But was it worth it? 

For anyone out there nodding their heads in recognition that they too, have these borderline masochistic tendencies to achieve an arbitrary portrait of perfection, may I  what it is that drives us to create and then hold it all back if it’s not exactly what we imagined in our heads? Because nothing is perfect! When do we draw the line and just push “publish”? Is done really better than perfect? Because done for me it seems like settling for mediocrity a lot of the time. Even if it’s just a friggin’ cookie. 

I’m not looking for answers here, just venting I suppose. But if you want to share your similar struggles, feel free in the comments. It’s not often I open up or vent in this space, so maybe we can all throw a perfectionist party, and make sure to have these very perfect cookies on the table. 

IMG_9577 

Speaking of! Florentines are traditionally almond-centric biscuits, sometimes with the addition of dried fruit like cherries and orange zest, with a rich chocolate coating on the bottom. Because I really love dessert for breakfast, I was motivated to make a morning-appropriate version that wouldn’t make me feel like a glutton. I chose to add some buckwheat to the mix since I love to start my day with whole grains, and swapped out the chocolate for a vanilla-cashew butter coating that I basically want to pour over my entire life. Like I mentioned, my original thought was to go with something yogurt-like, but once I made this saucy concoction, there was no need to pretend it was something else. Pure, divine, silky-smooth pleasure glaze! Ahem. 

florentines3 

I love these cookies because they are so simple to make with just a few ingredients, and incredibly fast. On my third testing, they were done – mixed, baked and glazed – in 20 minutes. If you’re in a rush to get your treat fix, leave the cashew coating out of the equation, and you’ll still have a gorgeously tasty and satisfying little snack. 

As far as additions and flavours go, these wicked little morsels are kind of a blank slate. I made a couple batches with orange zest and one without. Personally, I really loved the citrusy warmth that the orange lends, and its nod to morning fodder, but you can also omit it for a more neutral taste. Instead, spice them up with cinnamon, cardamom, lemon zest, rose, lavender, coconut etc. I think adding cacao nibs would also be really delicious, as would dried blueberries, dried figs, or apricots. Whatever you choose to do, get ready to be very excited to get up in the morning. Couple these cookies with a turmeric latte, a piece of fruit and you’ll be good to go. Until 4 o’clock when you want another one. 

IMG_9608 
Print recipe     

Breakfast Buckwheat Florentines 
Makes 12 
Ingredients: 
½ cup / 90g raw buckwheat groats 
½ cup / 70g slivered almonds (or sunflower seeds) 
1/3 cup / 45g almond flour 
2 ½ Tbsp. coconut oil 
2 ½ Tbsp. pure maple syrup 
a couple pinches sea salt 
zest of 1 organic orange, optional 

Vanilla Cashew Coating: 
1/3 cup / 85ml cashew butter 
¼ cup / 60ml coconut oil 
1 Tbsp. pure maple syrup 
seeds from 1 vanilla bean 
pinch sea salt 

Directions: 
1. Preheat oven to 350°F / 175°C. Line a rimmed cookie sheet with baking paper. 

2. In a dry skillet over medium heat, toast buckwheat until golden, about 3 minutes. Transfer buckwheat to a mixing bowl to cool. In the same skillet toast the slivered almonds until golden, about 2 minutes. Transfer them to the bowl of buckwheat to cool, add the almond meal and stir to combine. 

3. In the same skillet (no need to wash) over low heat, melt the coconut oil and add the orange zest, if using. Turn off the heat and whisk in the maple syrup and salt. Pour the liquid over the buckwheat and almond mixture and fold to combine. Do not wash the skillet. 

4. Using a tablespoon measure, scoop out the florentine cookie mixture and set each one on the lined baking sheet with plenty of space in between (I baked these in 2 batches of six). Using the back of the spoon, flatten the cookies out a little. Place in the oven and bake for 7-10 minutes until the edges are golden and bubbly. Remove from oven and let cool for about 5 minutes. Transfer to a cooling rack and repeat with remaining mixture. 

5. While the florentines are baking, make the cashew coating. Melt the coconut oil in the same skillet over low heat, then add the cashew butter and stir well to combine. Once melted, add the vanilla bean and maple syrup. Stir well and turn off the heat. 

6. Once the florentines have cooled, make sure that the cashew coating is still liquid. Spoon a couple teaspoons on the bottom of each cookie and spread it as evenly as possible. Place on a lined baking sheet, coating side up in the fridge or freezer to set. Once firm, repeat with remaining coating, except this time place the coating side down on the lined baking sheet. Place in the fridge or freezer to set, then enjoy! Store leftovers in the fridge or freezer in a tightly sealed container for up to two weeks. 



IMG_9629 
Once I started editing the new photos for this post, I realized that the last batch of Florentines weren’t as golden, or as flat as the previous batches. I decided to let that one go. And I’m very proud of that. 


Hey Copenhagen! Just a reminder about my first two cookbook events in CPH this Spring. The first will be an intimate talk and demonstration at SLOW Copenhagen, and the second will be a magical, celebratory dinner in collaboration with the local, organic grocer and kitchen, Kost. Click on the images for more info and tickets! Can’t wait to see you there.  


START RECIPE

CHAKRA FRUIT SALAD WITH ENLIGHTENED TAHINI SAUCE 
AUGUST 8, 2012 

As much as I love being a teacher, I really, really love being a student. 
This summer has seen me traveling a whole bunch with my cooking classes and I have had a total blast. To compliment all this running around and hearing a little too much of my own voice, I thought that taking a course where I am on the knowledge-receiving end would do my spirit some good. 
I decided to take a Reiki class and obtain my level one certification to enhance my abilities to heal myself and others. 

What is Reiki (ray-key), you ? Simply put, Reiki is an ancient, energy-based healing art that works as a support mechanism for the body. The light-touch therapy helps to re-establish a normal energy flow throughout the body’s systems, which in turn can enhance and accelerate the body’s innate healing abilities. The word Reiki can be broken down to two parts: Rei meaning universal spirit, and Ki meaning life force energy (in Chinese this is known as “Chi” and in Sanskrit it is known as “Prana”). 

Reiki can be practiced on oneself and on others, and every single person has this capability within them. In fact, one of the most powerful concepts my Reiki master shared with us on the first day of class, was that Reiki was simply “remembering what we already know”, meaning that we are born with an innate guidance system that we often lose track of as we get older. Reiki does not conflict with any religious or meditative practice, nor does it conflict with allopathic medicine. Reiki in fact is a wonderful compliment to other therapeutic treatments such as massage, reflexology, acupuncture, chiropractic treatments, psychotherapy, etc. I have obviously been attracted to more natural, or as some would say “alternative” therapies, for healing any and all body ailments for some time now. I find the less invasive and preventative modalities are more in line with my lifestyle, and I appreciate the fact that everyone in the world can practice this technique simply and safely – it’s like the universal healing tool! 

As no class would be complete without homework assignments, part of level one involves completing some out-of-class projects – but the best kind possible (in fact, being the keener I am, I actually ed for extra assignments because they were so much fun!). Our first t was to use the chakra colours in a creative way, so of course my first thoughts landed on food. The Reiki master, familiar with my love for all things edible, quickly told me to step outside my comfort zone and challenge myself to something different (which I will do in time, I promise!), but for now I give you my first homework assignment in the form of a fruit salad. I think I’ll get an A+. 

The chakras are the major energy centers in the body, of which there are seven. Beginning at the very base of the spine and moving upward to the crown of the head, chakras are said to be moving wheels of light, colour and sound that regulate all energy entering and exiting the body. The energy that flows through the chakras regulates the healing abilities of our physical, emotional, mental and spiritual selves. Although it may sound like pretty far-out stuff, I am amazed and inspired by the marked responses in my own body to this type of energy work. 

Something that particularly caught my attention with studying the chakra system (which I was familiar with through my yoga practice), was noticing colours more than usual. As each colour corresponds to a specific chakra in the body, I realized that colours really do play an important role in our lives, and the ones we choose to surround ourselves with say a lot about us. 

It is clear that colour is pretty important in my life, as creating vibrant hued food seems to wind up on my priority list almost daily. Although prior to taking this class this felt like more of a health-conscious decision, the importance of “eating a rainbow” and all that jazz, but now I realize that perhaps there is some truth to my cravings for specific colours. Red lentils to ground me when I am feeling a little too head-in-the-clouds, leafy greens for nourishing my heart, and violet berry smoothies when I need a serious spirit lift! Something to ponder at the least… 

So yes, I had to make something using all the colours of the rainbow and what a pleasurable job indeed. The summer market called to me, and what I created was a rainbow fruit salad with a bright, light and spiced tahini sauce to bring it all together. The fruits I chose were just what I found and had on hand, but you can of course use any fruits you like and that are in season near you. The Enlightened Tahini Sauce tastes delicious on any sweet fruits. Even just slicing up an apple to dip in the lusciousness would be welcomed. Experiment and rejoice! Anything goes.   



Chakra Fruit Salad with Enlightened Tahini Sauce 
Serves 4 
Fruit Salad: 
currants – red / root chakra 
oranges – orange / sacral chakra 
plums – yellow/ solar plexus chakra 
kiwi – green / heart chakra 
blueberries – blue / throat chakra 
blackberries – indigo / third eye chakra 
grapes – violet / crown chakra 

Enlightened Tahini Sauce 
hemp hearts to garnish (optional) 

Directions: 
1. Choose fruits representing every colour of the rainbow. 
2. Wash and prepare with love and gratitude. 
3. Drizzle with tahini sauce and sprinkle with hemp seeds. Share and enjoy. 

Enlightened Tahini Sauce 
Makes about 1 cup 

Ingredients: 
¼ cup tahini 
1 Tbsp. raw honey (or maple syrup) 
2 Tbsp. freshly squeezed lemon or orange juice 
¼ tsp. cinnamon 
pinch dried ground ginger 
pinch of sea salt (unless you are using salted tahini) 
4-6 Tbsp. water

Directions: 
1. Place all ingredients in a jar with a tightly fitting lid and shake well to combine. Add more water to thin if desired. Store leftovers in the fridge for up to a week. 

Although I can’t claim that eating this fruit salad will bring your spirit closer to enlightenment, I can tell you that your tummy will be. What better way to celebrate summer than with a refreshing bowl of raw rainbow sweetness to share with precious friends and beloved family? No matter how you slice it, nirvana is often found in the place you least expect, and sometimes even on the plate right in front of you. 

Peace, bless, and lots of summer love to all, 
Sarah B. 


START RECIPE

CHIA RHUBARB APRICOT MUFFINS 
JUNE 12, 2010 

Ch-ch-ch-CHIA! 
Hey, does anyone remember chia pets, those weird little clay animal figurines that grew fur made out of plants? I wanted one so badly as a kid, but my parents agreed that they didn’t really go with the décor. These days I have a serious love for chia, but instead of enjoying them as a sprout-covered squirrel on my windowsill, I eat the seeds, taking full advantage of the super food that gave this 1980’s terracotta tchotchke its power. 

What are Chia seeds? 
Aside from their slightly oblong shape, chia seeds look a lot like poppy seeds, being gray or black in colour, and very, very tiny. Unlike poppy seeds however, the inconspicuous chia is a veritable powerhouse of  and a very versatile food to boot. In pre-Columbian times they were a main component of the Aztec and Mayan diets and were the basic survival ration of Aztec warriors. I’ve read that one tablespoon was believed to sustain an individual for 24 hours. The Aztecs also used chia medicinally to stimulate saliva flow and to relieve joint pain and sore skin. 
In more recent years, chia has undergone a sort of renaissance with the increasing interest in health foods throughout North America and Western Europe. In Canada, chia seeds are often sold under the brand name “Salba”. Chia and Salba are essentially the same thing, only Salba is a white seed strain of the same plant. 


According to Dr. Andrew Weil, chia is very rich in omega-3 fatty acids, even more so than flax seeds! And it has another advantage over flax: chia is so rich in antioxidants that the seeds don’t deteriorate and can be stored for long periods without becoming rancid. And, unlike flax, they do not have to be ground to make their nutrients available to the body. Chia seeds also provide complete protein (perfect for vegetarians!) fiber, as well as calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, manganese, copper, iron, molybdenum, niacin, and zinc. See? They are like, a total miracle food! 

Bringing it all together 
The last awesome aspect of this super seed definitely worth mentioning is its binding qualities. By this I mean that when chia comes into contact with liquids it forms a gel, which not only makes a fabulous egg replacer in baked goods, but also it also acts as a binder in your digestive system, making your poop totally fabulous! I even considered naming the title of this post “Fabulous Bowel Movement Muffins”, but my gut told me not to. Ahem. Sorry. 
Why should you care about this? Well, if you have diarrhea, constipation, Irritable Bowel Syndrome, or Inflammatory Bowel Syndrome, chia gel actually helps to regulate symptoms by coating the digestive tract with a mucilaginous goo that soothes irritations, and improves digestion by bulking up stool in a calm and gentle fashion. After munching a few of these muffins, just tell me if you’re not experiencing some very satisfying trips to the John. 

For this recipe I used rhubarb because it’s about the only seasonal fruit we’ve got going on up here in Denmark. If you live somewhere where there is a wider variety of fresh fruit (basically anywhere but here – sorry I’m totally bitter), by all means use what you’re growing in your backyard or what’s available at your local farmer’s market instead.  
And just so you know, these muffins are sugar-free so they are not cupcakes in disguise. Don’t expect some super-sweet, dessert-like bomb to come out of your oven! These are healthy, real, whole-food muffins that you will not find at Starbucks (that’s a good thing). 

Chia Rhubarb Apricot Muffins 
Ingredients: 
• 1 ½ cups spelt flour 
• ½ cup rolled oats 
• 1 1/2 tsp. baking powder 
• 1/2 tsp. baking soda 
• 1/2 tsp. salt 
• 3 Tbsp. chia seeds + ¼ cup water 
• ¼ cup maple syrup 
• 2 tbsp. extra virgin olive oil 
• 1/2 cup orange juice 
• 1 tsp. vanilla extract 
• 1 1/4 cup finely chopped rhubarb 
• 1/3 cup chopped dried apricots (or raisins, dates, cranberries, cherries, etc.) 
• optional nuts, seeds, oats for topping (your choice – walnuts, almonds, pumpkin seeds etc.) 

Directions: 
1. Combine chia seeds and water in a glass and set aside for at least 15 minutes. 
2. Preheat the oven to 350 F. Line a muffin pan with liners. 
3. In a large mixing bowl, stir together the flours, baking powder, baking soda and salt until combined.  
4. In another bowl, add the chia seed gel, olive oil, maple syrup, orange juice and vanilla extract. Whisk until smooth by hand. Add to the flour mixture and blend just until moistened but lumpy. Stir in the rhubarb and apricots. 
5. Spoon the batter into 12 muffin cups, filling each cup about 2/3 full. Sprinkle the topping of your choice onto each muffin and bake until springy to the touch, about 25 to 30 minutes. Let cool for 5 minutes, then transfer the muffins to a wire rack to cool completely. 

What else can I do with Chia? 
Hold on everybody! The chia train doesn’t stop there! You can add these seeds to just about anything you can eat. Sprinkle them on your morning cereal, yogurt, lunchtime salads, blend them up in smoothies, add them to soups, stews – they work with just about everything. One tablespoon a day is all you need to start experiencing the array of the healthy benefits chia has to offer. And to replace one egg in baking, combine one tablespoon of chia with three tablespoons of water. 


START RECIPE

CHUNKY CHOCOLATE BUCKWHEAT GRANOLA 
MARCH 6, 2014 
chocgranola 
Having a baby really puts your priorities under a microscope, because the little time that they are actually asleep during the day is your opportunity to get important things accomplished. Things like bathing, eating, laundry, doing your taxes, calling you mom. Funny then, that lately my priorities don’t include any of those activities. Instead it seems that the most critical thing to do as soon as my son shuts his eyes, is making chocolate granola. And yes, I really need a shower. 

This trend began a couple weeks ago, nearly at the completion of my cookbook manuscript, the most overwhelming deadline of all time looming over me, that I got the most intense craving, not only for carb-y chocolate yum yums, but just to do something other than work and change diapers. When I finally put my finger on what it was I wanted, I whipped up a batch of chocolate granola so fast I even had time to sit and enjoy it before I heard the little waking whimpers of my babe. It was awesome. Needless to say, that huge jar of chunky, chocolate-y, uber-satisfying granola was sooooo gone almost as fast as I had made it. 

Obviously this granola recipe is really, really yummy. Dangerously so. In fact it is so good, I’ll admit to pulling a slightly crazy/selfish move and telling my husband that it was “burnt granola” so he wouldn’t eat any of it. When ed why I was shoving scorched cereal into my mouth I sheepishly told him that I “didn’t want to waste any food”. Shameful! And since he’s reading this, now he knows I’m crazy. 

chocgranola5 

This granola is the kind of thing that you can eat right out of the jar by the handful, and it’s saved me on all the afternoons when I needed something filling and indulgent-tasting when my energy was waning. Although you can eat this stuff for breakfast, it’s a little on the rich side for my taste so early in the morning. I like to think of it more as snacking granola. I’ll leave the application up to you. 

chocgranola4 
Your Buddy Buckwheat 
One of my latest obsessions, besides this granola, is buckwheat. Although the name suggests otherwise, buckwheat is actually not related to wheat, nor is it even a true grain. Buckwheat is the fruit seed of a plant similar to rhubarb and sorrel and a super substitute for people with wheat or gluten sensitivities. 

Buckwheat has a high protein content, and contains all essential amino acids, making it an excellent choice for vegans and vegetarians. It is high in magnesium, a mineral with a pleasant muscle-relaxing effect. Side-note for the ladies: eating magnesium-rich foods before your period will help ease cramping, headaches and back pain.

Buckwheat is a wonderful food for improving cardiovascular health. Buckwheat contains rutin, a flavanoid that helps to maintain blood flow, keeps platelets from clotting, and strengthens capillaries. Buckwheat also reduces serum cholesterol and lowers blood pressure. 

If you’ve ever tasted buckwheat honey or anything containing buckwheat flour, you’ll know that it has a strong, assertive flavour. Although it’s delicious as a porridge, or replacement for grain in a salad, stir-fry or stew situation, I would call it an “acquired taste”. In this granola however, it just becomes crispy, crunchy and adds a great texture 

You can find whole buckwheat, often referred to as buckwheat “groats” at natural food shops and good grocery stores. Its natural colour is verging on pale green and has a distinctive, pyramid shape. The dark brown variety of buckwheat is called kasha, which has been toasted. Although delicious, for this recipe you are looking for the raw version of buckwheat so that you can toast it yourself. 

chocgranola2 

Although you could pretty much use any grain you like in this recipe, I chose oats and buckwheat for a tasty, textured balance of gluten-free goodness. And I can say with total confidence (as I admit to “testing” this recipe more than once) that any nut would be delish – hazelnuts and walnuts were my favourites, but almonds, cashews, pecans or Brazil nuts would also be great. 

To serve, get creative. I really dug this granola with sliced bananas and homemade almond milk (which turns into chocolate milk!!!), but it would be delicious with yogurt, kefir, or sprinkled on top of cooked cereal, such as oatmeal. And as previously suggested, delish right out of the jar by the paw full. 

chocgranola4 

Print recipe     
Chunky Chocolate Buckwheat Granola 
Makes 8 cups 

Ingredients: 
3 cups / 300g rolled oats (gluten-free if necessary) 
1 cup / 200g buckwheat 
1 ½ cups / 65g coconut flakes 
1 cup /125g hazelnuts (walnuts are also delicious) 
¼ cup / 30g chia seeds 
½ tsp. fine grain sea salt 
¼ cup / 35g coconut sugar 
1/3 cup honey or maple syrup 
1/3 cup coconut oil 
1 tsp. vanilla extract 
½ cup cocoa powder (organic, fair-trade if possible) 

Directions: 
1. Preheat oven to 350°F / 175°C. 
2. In a large bowl combine oats, buckwheat, coconut flakes, chia seeds and coconut sugar. Roughly chop nuts and add them to the mix. 
3. In a small saucepan over low-medium heat, melt coconut oil. Add honey or maple syrup, vanilla, salt and cocoa powder. Whisk to combine until smooth. 
2. Pour liquid ingredients over dry and fold coat. 
3. Spread mixture out in an even layer on a lined baking sheet and press firmly with the back of a spatula to ensure that the mixture is compact. Bake for 15-20 minutes. Remove from oven, flip granola in large chunks, and place back in oven to bake for another 10 minutes, stirring every 3-4 minutes until toasted and fragrant. The dark colour of the granola makes it hard to tell if it is cooked or not, so go by smell.  Another good way to test it is by tasting a hazelnut, which takes the longest to cook – it should taste nutty and pleasantly roasted. 

Whether you choose to eat this granola for breakfast or an afternoon snack doesn’t matter. What does matter is that you make chocolate granola a real priority in your life. Laundry can wait, emails can wait, and your hair looks just fine a little on the greasy side. 


START RECIPE

CINNAMON CRUNCH CEREAL AND HEMP MILK 
AUGUST 14, 2017 
IMG_0211 
“It is easier to change a man’s religion than to change his diet.” 
– Margaret Mead 

Yup. Pretty much. 
This entire shift began when I had a particularly gnarly couple of months with manic mood swings that rivaled my adolescence, acne flare-ups, bloating, low energy, night sweats, and all-round malaise. Knowing what I know, I looked at my diet first to see what could be adjusted.  Everything was organic, whole, plant-based and totally “healthy” by most peoples’ standards. But it just wasn’t working anymore. I knew something had to give. 

Delving in deeper, a typical day for me was a whole-grain porridge in the morning, topped with all kinds of seasonal fruit, homemade granola etc. Lunch was a couple slices of organic sourdough rye bread from the local bakery, with homemade hummus, avocado, sprouts etc. Dinner was often a mixed bowl, the base of which was brown rice, quinoa, millet or buckwheat covered in a rainbow of vegetables, homemade pickles, superfood-loaded sauce, and fresh herbs. I wasn’t eating sugar, drinking coffee, I was keeping up with my exercise and sleeping well. So what was the problem? In this case, I had a feeling it was a big ol’ grain overload. 

The idea of cutting back on my morning oats, bread, and grain bowls was literally devastating to me. I cried. On multiple occasions, just talking about giving up muffins made me weep, and I felt like there was just no way I could make even more changes, or think about my diet even more than I already did. 

IMG_0108 
I have had two serious experiences with orthorexia in my life. For those of you who don’t know what orthorexia is, it is defined as an obsession with healthy eating. It is considered an eating disorder, and one that is becoming more prevalent in Western culture as healthy eating becomes increasingly “trendy”. The first bout happened the year I moved out of the house to study at university. While many of my friends were bingeing on junk food and beer, I swung in the opposite direction entirely and took advantage of the incredible meal program that was offered at school, and fueled myself with enormous salads, delicious sandwiches and wraps, veggie-heavy soups and stews, and protein-rich smoothies. I also signed up for the free fitness classes at the university gym, got hooked on kickboxing, step aerobics, boot camp drills, and the weight literally fell off me. I lost about 25 pounds that year, and for the first time in my life I felt like I was in control of the way I looked. The sudden attention from guys – which I had never had before – further stoked the fires for my desire to be even thinner, even though my initial motivation to eat this way stemmed from a desire to be healthy. As my attitude towards food morphed from friend to enemy, I flirted with a full-on eating disorder at this point, playing games with myself to see how long I could go without eating, how many exercise classes I could fit in between classes and study groups, how long I could make my bean salad from lunch last (too long!). Eventually my energy levels dropped to the point where I had a very hard time getting out of bed in the morning and I couldn’t concentrate well in school. I realized that I had taken things too far and started eating in a more balanced way again. I put the experience behind me without giving it too much thought. 

The second time this resurfaced was, ironically, while studying holistic . While I was learning all about foods and how my body worked, I became almost afraid to eat, toxifying my body, or “poisoning” it with sugar, gluten, dairy and the rest. I became obsessed with detoxing and subsisted only on “clean foods”: mostly vegetables. I was stressed, my hair started falling out, my acne came back and my energy hit an all-time low. Despite my obvious physical misery, I somehow felt validated since I wasn’t putting anything “bad” in my body. Eating as healthy as possible became obsessive for me and my classmates, and we’d all proudly bring our lunches to school, subtly scrutinizing each other’s Tupperware contents. Again, food had lost its pleasure, its joy, and had become something that I saw as more of an enemy than a friend. And that really scared me. 

IMG_0118b 
After graduating, I finally got a grip, and once again slowly re-established a healthy relationship to what I was eating. It is for these reasons that food is such a tender subject for me, and changing my diet dangerous territory. I spent so many years struggling to achieve a positive connection with food, and when I finally got there and it felt like such a relief. The prospect of having to go “back to that place” of thinking about food more than I already did felt unsafe for me, and slipping back into an obsessive place felt like an inevitability. Meanwhile, the negative self-talk voices were loud and overpowering, telling me how I was fat, flabby, weak, old – things that I KNEW weren’t true. But that’s the sad thing about internal monologues, they don’t need to make sense to play like broken records in our minds all day every day. It’s enough to drive a person insane. The cruel voices coupled with my extreme fear of reverting back to my old thought patterns and eating habits absolutely terrified me. I felt like I had hit a wall of hopelessness. And all I wanted to do to feel better was to eat a piece of eff-ing bread. 

IMG_0145 
The reason I suspected the grain thing was because of the unique relationship that blood sugar has to our hormones. If we’re consuming carbohydrates at a faster rate than our bodies are utilizing them for energy, that extra glucose gets stored in the fat cells of the liver, which decreases its ability to breakdown excess estrogen, and allowing it to hang around in our systems longer than it should. This excess circulating estrogen causes a whole host of symptoms, including, you guessed it: mood swings, bloating, sluggish metabolism, tender breasts, fatigue, foggy thinking, PMS, and many more less-than-desirable issues. Now, these things can be exacerbated by stress (shocker), inadequate fat and protein intake, and environmental factors, all of which I was likely suffering from. 

I set out by making a plan, since I know how hard it is to make positive changes without preparation. Instead of focusing on the all the things I wanted to reduce or eliminate, I focused on the foods I could have, foods higher in fat and protein, since I knew that those things would naturally elbow out the things I would normally fall back on (I’m looking at you, banana bread). I made a list that I could refer to when I was grocery shopping for ingredients. I cooked and froze things. I stocked the fridge and pantry. I was ready. 

IMG_0158 
Within the first few days I already noticed a difference: my energy was incredibly stable, my emotions were in check, the bloating in my stomach dissipated, and I just felt good. As the days rolled on my compulsive urges to down half a dozen muffins subsided, and it was like I could clearly see that what I had actually been battling was blood sugar issues – not just “too many” grains or carbohydrates. It became clear that I had been taking my bod on a wild rollercoaster of high and low blood sugar for years, which had in turn been tossing my hormones around like a pair of sneakers in a washing machine. Stabilizing blood sugar is the first step in managing your endocrine’s system ability to do its job properly. I realized that if I was going to eat grains (or any carbohydrate-heavy food), I had to eat them in smaller amounts, balance them out thoughtfully with enough fat and protein, and make sure that I was actually using that energy instead of letting it sit around in my body. So far, things have been going incredibly well, and I am so darn proud of myself for not only identifying the issue, but actually doing something about it. 

We are fluid beings with needs that evolve and change over time. Our diets need to reflect that, which is why it’s imperative to listen to our bodies and be advocates for our own health. No one knows your body better than you, and once you quiet all the noise out there telling you “how” to eat in black-and-white terms, you’ll be able to hear yourself, without judgement, and choose the way of eating that is just right for you, right now. It may be different tomorrow, and that is okay too. In sharing this all with you, I am trying to set an example, because you too have this intuition that is telling you just what you need to eat and do right now. It’s actually fun to be connected to yourself, your unique rhythms and needs. Learning about how you operate and designing a plan that caters to your exceptional self means that you can celebrate, instead of berate your body the whole month through, and experience pleasure in every stage of our cycle. I promise. 

IMG_0187 
This is undoubtedly a huge topic, and one that I plan on chipping away at over the next few blog posts. Some things I want to reiterate here are, that I do not believe that grains or carbohydrates are bad. No natural food group should be vilified, just as no macronutrient should be either. If you’re thinking about giving up carbs, I’d advise you not to. Glucose, the sugar found in carbohydrates is your brain’s primary fuel source, and when consumed responsibly, carbs will help you on your wellness journey, not hinder you. I still stand behind each and every one of the recipes that I have created for this blog, the app, and both of my cookbooks, and I believe that they are appropriate for many people to enjoy. However at this stage of my life, some of the recipes do not serve my needs any longer, and I’ve had to make small changes to them, or put them on the shelf for another time. I’m okay with that. 

IMG_0230 
Whew! Now for some notes on the recipe. 

The base recipe for my Cinnamon Toast Crunch-inspired cereal is grain-free, but it does rely on almond flour, which can be expensive. If you can tolerate pseudo-grains, feel free to top up the base with buckwheat flour. This will bulk up the cereal considerably so you’ll have more for less money. 

This cereal is r-i-c-h. You really only need a small amount to fuel you in the morning – not like the bottomless bowls of that we’re used to consuming in the morning without every really feeling satisfied, ya know what I mean? And paired with a luscious liquid like my Super Creamy Hemp Milk will keep you full for even longer, help stabilize your blood sugar, not to mention flood your bod with the delicate nutrients and powerful enzymes that store-bought, plant-based milk is missing. This recipe is dead simple and pretty much like cream – I shouldn’t even call it milk, since it’s so rich and thick. And since we’re thinking outside the cereal box here, don’t stop at breakfast…this milk is amazing in coffee and tea, in raw treats and baked goods, soup, smoothies, ice cream and popsicles. You’re gonna love it! 

I made the cereal the first time with just almond flour and a full half-cup of applesauce. It was definitely delicious, but I loved it just as much when I cut this amount in half. If you don’t want all the sweetness, use just ¼ cup / 60ml of applesauce instead of the full amount. If you’re using buckwheat flour, you will need the full amount of the applesauce’s moisture to bind it all together. I haven’t tried a version without the coconut sugar, so if you’re not into that stuff feel free to play with the recipe on your own. 
Print recipe     

Grain-free / Gluten-free Cinnamon Crunch Cereal 
Makes 5-7 servings 
Ingredients: 
½ cup ground flax seeds / 50g 
1 ½ cups / 150g blanched almond flour 
1½ Tbsp. cinnamon 
¼ tsp. fine sea salt 
¼ cup / 35g coconut sugar 
¼ cup / 60ml – ½ cup / 125ml applesauce (½ cup / 125ml if using buckwheat flour) 
1 Tbsp. coconut oil, melted 
optional: ½ cup / 85g buckwheat flour 

Directions: 
1. Preheat oven to 325°F/160°C. 

2. Combine the ground flax seeds, almond flour, cinnamon, salt, and sugar in a large mixing bowl. Stir well. Then add the desired amount of applesauce and coconut oil, and stir to fully incorporate (you made need to use your hands if it gets too dry). Gather dough into a rough ball. 

3. Place dough ball on a sheet of baking paper with another sheet on top. Using a rolling pin, roll the dough as evenly as possible, about 2mm thickness (not quite paper thin). If you’re using buckwheat flour, you’ll need to separate the dough into two batches to achieve this. Remove top sheet of baking paper, and using a paring knife, score the dough into small squares of your desired size (mine were about 1.5cm / .5” square). 

4. Place in the oven to bake for about approximately 25 minutes until turning golden around the edges, then turn the oven off and let the cereal sit in there until cool (this will help dry it out and make them extra crisp). 

5. Once the cereal is completely cool, break up the pieces into squares and place in an airtight glass container. Store for up to one month at room temperature. 

Super Creamy Hemp Milk 
Makes 1 liter / 1 quart 

Ingredients: 
scant 4 cups / 1 liter water 
¾ cup hulled hemp seeds / hemp hearts 

Totally optional add-ins: 
sweetener (stevia, dates, honey, maple syrup…) 
vanilla 
sea salt 
raw cacao powder 

Directions: 
1. Place all ingredients in the blender and blend on high until smooth (this make take a couple minutes). 
2. Pour directly into a sterilized bottle and store in the fridge for up to 5 days. 

Initially, I was really afraid to come out about any of this stuff – the changes my diet is undergoing, the orthorexia, the internal voices! But I know in my gut that if I’m going through it, someone else out there is too. And the reason I wanted to start My New Roots in the first place was to create a safe space for everyone to share and support each other on our health journeys, so I have to be as transparent and honest as I feel I can be to set that example. I want to say a huge heartfelt thank-you to all of you who have stood by me all of these years and continue to do so. It feels pretty amazing to have you, and to be getting better all together. 

In light and gratitude, 
Sarah B. 


START RECIPE

COCONUT BLACK RICE BREAKFAST PUDDING 
JANUARY 20, 2014 
blackrice 

The holidays are over. The rush of New Years has passed. And now we plummet, head first, into the depths of winter. 

Well, that was uplifting, Sarah. Okay, perhaps it feels a little doomsday around here with the weather as it is. It rains, it pours, today it snowed, and I have to turn the lights on in the house at 2pm. Sometimes Copenhagen is so dark, I pretend that I am living on some groovy planet in another galaxy far away where there is no sun. For some reason, this makes things more bearable. 

But you know what else makes things more bearable? Delicious food! Ahh…works every single time. Last weekend I had my darling friend, Earthsprout Elenore over for a sleepover with our babies (and husbands!), and for breakfast I made this Coconut Black Rice Breakfast Pudding. We were instantly transported to another place, far, far away. Instead of a not-so-groovy, poorly-lit planet we were on a tasty tropical paradise island – at least our tummies were – and I knew that I had to share the experience with you. 

Let me start by saying that I am not a huge fan of rice pudding. I find it rather boring, in fact. But I had a light bulb moment recently when cooking up a pot of black rice, thinking about how creamy and sweet it was, that maybe using it instead of white rice would be pretty darn delish. When I considered the other ingredients used to make rice pudding, dairy milk, white sugar, butter, I realized that this was one recipe that could easily become a high-vibe bowl of goodness with some simple substitutions. Okay, it’s true that the combination of coconut milk and black rice have been thought up before (oops) but it was news to me! And such a welcome change from the humble bowls of oats that I’ve been eating for breakfast lately. 

blackricepudding2 

My Passion for Passion Fruit 
If you can believe it, I ate my first passion fruit about three years ago. I could barely handle how delicious it was! The flavour of it was so explosive, bursting with high-vibe vibrancy – a golden, succulent miracle! And can I share what made me avoid these fruits for so long? I simply had no idea what to do with them. Seriously. I’d see them in the store, shrug, and walk by.  It wasn’t until working at a restaurant here in Copenhagen where we also sold organic fruits and veggies, that one of my co-workers sliced one open for me to try. I was floored. 

The thing that tripped me up, and undoubtedly many others, is that when a passion fruit is ripe, it looks like something that got lost in the back of your fridge for a month, that you almost want to remove with tweezers. Okay perhaps that is a slight exaggeration, but ideally, that little golf ball should be well wrinkled before you cut it open. The inside of the passion fruit is not much better either: something along the lines of alien offspring. Once past the shriveled visage and goopy interior, you’re in for a real treat. The flavour is kind of like eating perfume, in the best way possible. It is sweet-tart, slightly acidic, and bathes your tongue in beguiling, tropical fragrance. 

Passion fruit is quite the little health bomb too. Loaded with vitamins A, B6, and E, calcium, iron and zinc, the fleshy interior also contains crunchy, edible, fiber-rich seeds. Three passion fruits contain only 54 calories and supply your body with 189 milligrams of potassium, and 27 percent the recommended daily allowance of vitamin C. 

blackricepudding3 

The final result of this pudding is silky, creamy and totally divine. I’ve always thought that black rice has a real perfume, somewhat similar to vanilla, so I tossed in half a pod after scraping the seeds out and it really added something special, while intensifying that unmistakable delicate vanilla bouquet of the rice itself. 

In keeping with the tropical theme, I went all out. I biked to the local market and bought every single fruit that squeals of sunshine and sparkles and life. Mango, banana, pomegranate and passion fruit were my selections, and I felt like I was eating mouthfuls of vanilla clouds with juicy glitter on top! No big deal at all. 

Yes, this was my breakfast, but I think it would make a delicious dessert after a light meal too. Today I ate it for lunch next to a protein-rich green smoothie – a fantastic combination! 

For “research purposes” I made this pudding twice: once with soaked rice and once with raw rice. The texture of the soaked rice was better, and as a bonus, it cooked in about half the time. If you can remember to soak the grains the night before you are going to make the pudding, it will be tastier and faster, plus much easier to digest. To learn why soaking grains is a very good idea, read more here. 
Print recipe     
Coconut Black Rice Breakfast Pudding 
Serves 3-4  

Ingredients: 
1 cup / 200g black rice, soaked overnight (if possible) 
1 can full-fat coconut milk (reserve a couple tablespoons for garnish, if desired) 
½ cup water with soaked rice, 1 ½ cups water with un-soaked rice 
¼ tsp. fine grain sea salt 
½ vanilla bean (optional) 
1 Tbsp. maple syrup (or other sweetener of your choice) 
1/3 cup coconut flakes, lightly toasted 

Fruits of your choosing: 
mango 
passion fruit 
pomegranate 
banana 
kiwi 
pineapple 

Directions: 
1. Measure out rice, rinse and cover with water. Let soak overnight or for up to 8 hours (even one hour makes a difference!). Drain and rinse well again. 

2. Place rice in a pot with coconut milk, salt, vanilla bean (seeds and pod) and the indicated amount of water. Bring to a boil, reduce to simmer and cook covered, stirring frequently, until the rice is tender and most of the liquid has been absorbed (you still want a little liquid). Times vary depending on whether or not you soaked the rice: for un-soaked rice, cook 45-60 minutes: for soaked rice, cook about 25-30 minutes. Add maple syrup and fold to combine. Remove from heat and set aside. 

3. While the rice is cooking, prepare all the fruit that you would like to accompany the pudding. 

4. To assemble, scoop out desired amount of black rice into a bowl, top with fruit, toasted coconut, and a drizzle of coconut milk. Enjoy. 


I hope this dish brings a little sunshine to all of your lives as we plod along into winter. You know, it’s not so bad when you have happy, healthy food to get you through. Let’s all keep our spirits high, fill our bellies with tropical tinsel and march onward! 
With passion, fruit, and passion fruit, 
Sarah B. 



While we are on the subject of breakfast and Elenore of Earthsprout, I would love to share with you her amazing new app that she just launched: 30 Raw Breakfasts. This 30-recipe app is your ticket to inspired, healthy, whole-food morning magic (but gosh, I have to say that almost every one of these treats could double as dessert!). She’s giving away one app to you, the fabulous My New Roots reader. All you have to do is post your favourite breakfast in the comments section of Elenore’s post (on her blog, not mine!), and she will choose a winner at random. Good luck, and make sure you invite me over for breakfast! 

START RECIPE


EMMA’S TAHINI, ORANGE + COCONUT MUESLI 
APRIL 29, 2016 
Tahini Orange Coconut Muesli 

I can’t recall the exact day that I stumbled into Emma Galloway’s world, but I do remember being completely and utterly awe-struck, inspired, and grateful. Her blog, My Darling Lemon Thyme has been on my highly edited list of sites that I actually read, and her delicious, innovative recipes have been making regular appearances in my kitchen ever since. 

Joy of joys, Emma released a cookbook, and just like the blog, it is a true gem. Flipping through this book is kind of like shopping in a store where everything fits you perfectly, is the exact colour you want, and strikes the perfect balance between need and want. For instance, I need a recipe for gluten-free sourdough bread, and, I want another recipe for granola. She takes familiar ingredients and genius-ly transforms them into something unique and special that makes you : why didn’t I think of that?! Sweet Potato and Kale Latkes, Mung Bean Pancakes, Buckwheat Tabouli – the list goes on. Emma uses exclusively plant-based, gluten-free, whole food ingredients, and taste comes first! I want to tuck into every single one of her meals and treats. 

tahinigranola7 
Although it was nearly impossible to choose just one to share here, the recipe I settled on was Tahini, Orange + Coconut Toasted Muesli, as it sounded like the best and most exciting new way of enjoying granola, and the perfect way to bid farewell to those last winter oranges in the market. The idea of adding tahini to granola was totally brilliant (thanks again, Emma), along with the flavours of toasted coconut and oranges. Yum. After baking, the additions of dried fruit are really special and deliver bright, juicy hits throughout the toasty nuts, seeds and grains. It’s incredibly balanced and tasty, and makes a stupendous topping for yogurt, porridge – even as snack eaten right out of the jar. A bag of this on a recent trip halfway across the world proved to be a real lifesaver! 

tahinigranola2 
The next time I make this recipe, I am going to try it with rolled oats instead of the quinoa flakes. Although it was a nice change to use a different grain, I find the texture of quinoa flakes a little too light and powdery – I prefer the heft and crunch that oats give to granola. I’ve even wondered about using buckwheat groats, which I love in cereal. I will keep you guys posted when I try something new! 

Tahini Orange Coconut Muesli 
Print recipe     

Tahini, orange + coconut toasted muesli 
Makes 1.5kg / 2 pounds 
Ingredients: 
5 cups / 500g quinoa flakes 
2 cups / 180g unsweetened shredded or flaked coconut 
1/2 cup / 65g cashews, roughly chopped 
1/2 cup / 75g whole raw almonds, roughly chopped 
1/2 cup / 65g pumpkin (pepita) seeds 
1/2 cup / 60g sunflower seeds 
1/4 cup / 35g sesame seeds 

1/3 cup / 80ml virgin coconut oil 
1/3 cup / 80ml un-hulled tahini 
1/3 cup / 80ml honey, pure maple or brown rice syrup (I used maple syrup) 
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract 
the finely grated zest of 2 oranges 
1/2 tsp. fine sea salt 

1 cup / 200g natural raisins or sultanas 
1 1/2 cups / 165g dried cranberries 
1 cup / 95g firmly packed dried apple slices, roughly chopped 
1/2 cup / 80g pitted dried dates, roughly chopped 

Directions: 
1. Preheat oven to 350°F / 180°C. Combine quinoa flakes, coconut, cashews, almonds, pumpkin seeds, sunflower and sesame seeds in a large bowl using your hands to combine thoroughly. Combine coconut oil, honey or syrup, tahini, vanilla, orange zest and sea salt in a small pan and bring slowly to the boil, stirring constantly until melted and combined. Pour over dry ingredients and mix well. 

2. Transfer to a large deep baking sheet and bake for 25-30 minutes, stirring every 10 minutes, until toasty and golden brown.  those edges like a hawk as they have a tendency to burn. Remove from the oven and set aside to cool. Stir in the dried fruit and transfer to a large glass jar or airtight container. Will keep for 2-3 weeks as long as airtight. 

tahinigranola6 
 

Thank you, Emma, for sharing your gifts with the world. We love granola, and we love you. 

xo, Sarah B 



I’m also really excited to share some (hopefully) helpful information for you in the new Resources section here on the blog. Since I get many, many emails with similar questions about the practicalities of running My New Roots, I have decided to write a few pieces on the inner workings of this food blog – and where I don’t have the answer I have ed my team to kindly chip in… you know, about hosting and coding and technical stuff that makes my brain hurt ?? 

Have a look and let me know if there is anything else, you’d like a writeup about! 

xo, Sarah B. 


START RECIPE

EVERYBODY LOVES THE SUNSHINE CITRUS SALAD 
MARCH 25, 2011  

Hello beautiful!  
That is what my breakfast said this morning. No, I am not crazy, maybe just a little starved for some fresh-food attention. 
I really had trouble coming up with a post this week because we are in such a time of change! Is it winter? Is it spring? The weather is constantly contradicting itself, and my palette is hungry for something new and juicy. Just when I really didn’t think I could make another dish with root vegetables, I got this email from a friend:  
Have you given tribute to citrus this winter on your blog? It took me until this year to get how much mother earth loves us, such that she sends us little delicious sweet suns in the darkest hour of winter, filled with vitamin C and all the rest of it to strengthen our bodies, enliven us, zest us through these rainy days. What a world we live in. So blessed.  

Um, totally! That was exactly the high-vibe reminder I needed. And my heart leapt at the thought of a juicy-bright breakfast with a superfluity of sunshine colours. I was so inspired in fact, that my walk to the market to buy every type of citrus fruit in sight, also yielded another bright idea: a sweet sexy syrup to drizzle across the top of all those slices of light. How do you like them apples…err…oranges?  

This syrup in fact, a Ginger-Bay-Lime Syrup, must have been a sun-drenched induced daydream because it sounds a little crazy, but tastes like eating the light in a clear summer sky. Bright and bursting with energy, the bay leaf offsets the sweetness of the maple syrup, while the ginger adds a surprise kick at the finish line. The lime leaves of course compliment the citrus flavours in the salad itself, plus add a warm familiar mellowness that I can’t quite describe. Oh I could seriously pour this stuff all over everything for the rest of my winter days and feel quite satisfied, I believe. Sigh.   
What was I talking about? Right. Citrus.  


Nutritious Citrus  
All citrus fruits are veritable goldmines of  goodness. Let me count the ways…  
Well, we know about the vitamin C thing. Just one orange, for example, contains about 65 mg – the daily recommended intake for this important nutrient. But there are so many other wonderful benefits of citrus fruits! Did you also know that they are high in potassium and other minerals, as well as being a good source of the soluble fiber pectin?  

The other groovy thing about citrus? It fights grease. Have you ever been out to one of those barbeque chicken or rib restaurants where they give you a little bowl of lemon water at the end of your meal to clean your sticky and grease-saturated fingers? (a distant memory, but yes, I recall…) Well, as it turns out citrus acts as a cleanser the very same way inside the body, aiding in the digestion and utilization of fat! How cool is that?!  

Here are some more fun little tidbits about individual citrus fruits…  
Grapefruits  
– consuming them burns as many calories as they contain, therefore an excellent choice for those trying to lose weight.  
– helps in digestion and utilization of foods.  
– one grapefruit contains about 75 mg vitamin C  
– high potassium content  
– red grapefruit is a good source of lycopene: a phytonutrient with anti-tumor properties.  

Oranges  
– delicious enjoyed as juice, one glass contains about 125 mg of vitamin C  
– high potassium content  
– high calcium content  
– out of all the citrus fruits, oranges contain the most vitamin A (as beta-carotene), which may help us fight infections by supporting the immune system.   
– oranges contain a flavanoid called herperidin, which has been shown to lower high blood pressure as well as cholesterol in animal studies, and to have strong anti-inflammatory properties.  

Lemons  
– excellent detoxifier, cleanser, purifier, and rejuvenator: especially in the liver.   
– lemon water stimulates gastric juices when drunk 20 – 30 minutes prior to eating.   
– good source of calcium, magnesium and phosphorous  
– contains a compound called limonoid, which has been shown to help fight cancers of the mouth, skin, lung, breast, stomach and colon.  


Get yourself to the shops quick and pick up some of your fav fruits before they are out of season! And perhaps get into some of the lesser-known citrus that is sure to please. Ever tried a kumquat? How about a minneola, or pummelo? Meyer lemon? All kinds of yum, I tell ya. Especially bathed in this syrup-from-heaven.  

Finish the whole salad off with a good couple grinds of cracked black pepper (no, I am not insane, trust me…), and a sprinkling of the nuts or seeds you have on hand. I used some pumpkin seeds, lightly toasted in a dry skillet to bring out their nutty-ness, which added a whole other awesome dimension of flavour to this dish. Almonds would be a nice fit too, or walnuts. Toasted sesame seeds? Sheesh, that’s a good idea. Guess I’ll have to try that tomorrow. Oh darn.   
You could even push things further with some chopped fresh herbs. Mint is the obvious choice and would be delish, but since I am not so into obvious, I would go with something like tarragon or flat-leaf parsley. Does it ever stop?!  


Everybody Loves the Sunshine Citrus Salad  
Ingredients:  
– a lovely selection of citrus fruits: navel oranges, blood oranges, tangerines, grapefruit, meyer lemons, mandarins, minneolas, pummelos, kumquats, clementines… 
– Ginger-Bay-Lime Syrup (recipe to follow) 
– freshly ground black pepper 
– nuts or seeds for garnish 

Directions: 
1. Prepare syrup.  
2. While the syrup is cooling down, slice up the citrus fruits – slice off the rind on the top and bottom, then slice down the sides. Slice the fruit horizontally to make “discs”. (This is just one way to slice citrus, of course. Do it however you like!)  
3. Arrange sliced fruit on a platter, pour cooled syrup over top. Add freshly cracked black pepper and garnish with nuts or seeds. 

Ginger-Bay-Lime Syrup 
Ingredients: 
¼ cup maple syrup 
¼ cup water 
a few slices fresh ginger 
3 kaffir lime leaves 
1 bay leaf 

Directions: 
Put all ingredients in a saucepan. Bring to a boil and let simmer for 1-2 minutes. Remove from heat and let syrup steep and cool down. Store leftovers in a glass container in the fridge for up to seven days. Makes about 4 servings. 

I hope you all enjoy this uncomplicated dish as much as I do. It’s amazing how something so simple can be so breathtakingly tasty. Oh how the succulence goes on and on… 


START RECIPE

FROM MY COOKBOOK: RAW VEGAN EGGNOG 
DECEMBER 5, 2014  
Raw Vegan Eggnog // My New Roots  
 
 always know that Christmas is right around the corner when eggnog suddenly appears in my parents’ fridge. My father just loves the stuff and he’ll guzzle through umpteen vintage-deckled cartons over the course of the holidays, especially if guests pop by.  

Me? I’m not so much into it. Although I can totally dig on the warming spicy scent that wafts from the punch bowl, knowing what it’s made of, kind of makes my tummy flip. Once I realized that it was the sweetness and smell of freshly grated nutmeg that was charming me, I set out to make a raw vegan version that would satisfy even my dad’s discriminating eggnog palate (well, in theory anyway). It’s super rich, so thick and creamy – an amazing breakfast in fact – but decadent enough for dessert. The secret is in the sesame seeds: an unusual addition to a blended drink, but give them a try! They add tons of protein, fiber, healthy fats, calcium and help make this smoothie a veritable meal.  

I am also excited to post this recipe because it is the first one I am sharing from the cookbook! It’s a simple one, but a sure favourite.   Plus, it seems like the time of year when many of you will be dusting off your reindeer-shaped eggnog cups, so I thought it appropriate to swoop in and present you with a possible alternative.  
eggnog5  
 
Smooth Move, Sesame Seeds  
If you’ve been reading My New Roots for a while, you are already well aware of my sesame seed obsession. I love their versatility, nutty flavour, nourishing minerals and healthy fats. I love how inexpensive and readily available they are, and how long they stay fresh (storing them in the fridge is always best!). I buy them in bulk and use them for so many things, from dressing up salads to throwing them in my smoothies.   That’s right! You can drink sesame seeds. For real.  

I first discovered this upon running out of protein powder, and searching the cupboards for an alternative, my curiosity fell upon the holy seed. I soaked them overnight, and the next morning whirred them up with some fruit and greens to reveal a most satisfying meal-in-a-glass.   :Since then, I haven’t looked back! Now I often add sesame seeds to my smoothies, and even blended soups, as I find they add incredible body and richness to just about anything. If you are the kind of person that loves drinking smoothies, but finds that you are hungry an hour later (me), sesame seeds will really help with the stick-to-your-ribs satiety factor.  

It may surprise to find out that sesame seeds are an excellent source of essential minerals. Calcium for the prevention of osteoporosis and migraines, magnesium for supporting our vascular system, zinc for bone health, selenium for antioxidant protection, and copper for reducing inflammation are just a handful of the incredibly important roles these minerals play for us. The biggest surprise of all? By weight, sesame seeds have a higher iron content than liver!  

Raw Vegan Eggnog // My New Roots  
 
If you have a high-powered blender the sesame seeds will blend up very quickly. If you have a regular blender, remember that it make take a little longer to achieve a perfectly smooth consistency. Just keep the motor running and be patient.  

The level of spiciness in this drink, I leave up to you. I like mine super nutmeg-y, but that’s not everyone’s taste, so start with just a little, blend, and add more if you’d like. The same goes for the figs: I usually make my milkshake with just one, but others might enjoy it a little sweeter. If you find that your figs are very dry, soak them the night before beside the sesame seeds, and use the soak water in the eggnog. The turmeric is really just to add a slightly creamy yellow, so it’s optional.  

Raw Vegan Eggnog // My New Roots  
 
Print recipe      

Raw Vegan Eggnog Milkshake  
Serves 1  
Ingredients:  
1 frozen banana 
1-2 dried figs (depending on how sweet you like it) 
3 Tbsp. sesame seeds, soaked for 8 hours, or overnight 
2 Tbsp. hemp seeds 
1 cup milk of choice or water 
½ tsp. ground cinnamon 
pinch of freshly grated nutmeg 
pinch of ground clove 
pinch of turmeric (for colour) 
a little squeeze of lemon juice 

Directions:  
1. Place sesame seeds in a glass with ½ tsp. of sea salt, cover with water and soak up to 8 hours. Drain and rinse well. 
2. Place all ingredients in a blender and blend on high until completely smooth. Spice to taste. Enjoy. 


If you are looking for Christmas gifts this year, don’t forget that a pre-ordered My New Roots cookbook is probably on everyone’s list, amiright? Not only that, but it comes with the added bonus of arriving in spring, when most people have long forgotten about the holidays and are in serious need of presents! Wow, didn’t I time that perfectly? I am always thinking ahead here, friends. You can preorder the My New Roots cookbook on Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Indiebound and Indigo. 
In all seriousness, I have been so overwhelmed with the outpouring of love and support from all of you about the book. I know that you are just as excited as I am to hold this collection of from-the-heart recipes in your hands. Only a few more months to go now! 

And most thrilling of all, is that my cookbook is going to be published translated into Danish and Dutch! The UK and Australia are publishing it too. Here are the release dates: 

US: March 31, 2015 
Canada: March 31, 2015 
UK: April 9, 2015 
Australia: April 9, 2015 
Netherlands: June, 2015 
Denmark: pending 

In the meantime, have a look at the gorgeous quotes below from my friends and peers who have been fortunate enough to have a sneak peak of the book. Thank you to all of them for being so incredibly generous and encouraging with their words. 

My New Roots - Inspired Plant-Based Recipes for Every Season 

“My New Roots is beautiful proof that eating with  in mind need not be a compromise. This is an unabashedly enthusiastic riff on the food-as-medicine approach to cooking and eating. Sarah’s playful and encouraging voice is infectious: you get the sense that she is waiting on the other side of each recipe to give you a high five.” 
—Heidi Swanson, author of Super Natural Every Day 

“My New Roots is filled with good ideas for fresh new ways of using plant foods. Sarah Britton shows that truly alive ingredients can result in more interesting and better-tasting recipes and are always worth seeking out.” 
—Deborah Madison, author of Vegetable Literacy and The New Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone 

“Sarah is a veggie-lovin’ culinary goddess! Her unique and seasonal plant-based creations will inspire you to fall head over heels in love with vegetables. There are so many beautiful recipes I can’t wait to make!” 
—Angela Liddon, author of The Oh She Glows Cookbook 

“I have been waiting for this book since I first started reading Sarah’s blog years ago. She has a gift for writing truly wonderful recipes, vibrant with produce, and has the knowledge to explain why these plant-based foods are good for us. Her sweet spirit shines through every page.  So thrilled to have this keeper in my kitchen!” 
—Sara Forte, author of The Sprouted Kitchen 

“Sarah’s creativity always inspires. With its vibrant recipes, evocative visuals, witty combinations, and approachable ways to live better, this book is a must for anyone interested in optimal, delicious health.” 
—Laura Wright, thefirstmess.com 

“Sarah always treads the beautiful line between making whole foods practical and also appealing, leading the way in this new real food movement.” 
—Sarah Wilson, author of I Quit Sugar 

“Being healthy and happy is so easy when you’re cooking with Sarah. Her gentle approach, love and passion for whole foods, and flair for pairing mind-blowing flavors create fabulous and fresh food that looks stunning and is bursting with personality and life-affirming goodness.  With unbelievable tastes and textures, My New Roots takes you on an exquisite journey that seduces you with every lift of the fork, leaving you voracious for vegetables.” 
—Tess Masters, author of The Blender Girl 

“It’s a rare book that delivers inspiration through its every page, yet each one of Sarah’s recipes sings with flavor and originality. The entire collection is a seductive introduction to a more wholesome way of eating and an irresistible call to the kitchen.” 
—Clotilde Dusoulier, author of The French Market Cookbook and Edible French 


START RECIPE

FROM MY COOKBOOK: RAW VEGAN EGGNOG 
DECEMBER 5, 2014 
Raw Vegan Eggnog // My New Roots 
 
I always know that Christmas is right around the corner when eggnog suddenly appears in my parents’ fridge. My father just loves the stuff and he’ll guzzle through umpteen vintage-deckled cartons over the course of the holidays, especially if guests pop by. 

Me? I’m not so much into it. Although I can totally dig on the warming spicy scent that wafts from the punch bowl, knowing what it’s made of, kind of makes my tummy flip. Once I realized that it was the sweetness and smell of freshly grated nutmeg that was charming me, I set out to make a raw vegan version that would satisfy even my dad’s discriminating eggnog palate (well, in theory anyway). It’s super rich, so thick and creamy – an amazing breakfast in fact – but decadent enough for dessert. The secret is in the sesame seeds: an unusual addition to a blended drink, but give them a try! They add tons of protein, fiber, healthy fats, calcium and help make this smoothie a veritable meal. 

I am also excited to post this recipe because it is the first one I am sharing from the cookbook! It’s a simple one, but a sure favourite. Plus, it seems like the time of year when many of you will be dusting off your reindeer-shaped eggnog cups, so I thought it appropriate to swoop in and present you with a possible alternative. 
eggnog5 
 
Smooth Move, Sesame Seeds 
If you’ve been reading My New Roots for a while, you are already well aware of my sesame seed obsession. I love their versatility, nutty flavour, nourishing minerals and healthy fats. I love how inexpensive and readily available they are, and how long they stay fresh (storing them in the fridge is always best!). I buy them in bulk and use them for so many things, from dressing up salads to throwing them in my smoothies. That’s right! You can drink sesame seeds. For real. 

I first discovered this upon running out of protein powder, and searching the cupboards for an alternative, my curiosity fell upon the holy seed. I soaked them overnight, and the next morning whirred them up with some fruit and greens to reveal a most satisfying meal-in-a-glass. Since then, I haven’t looked back! Now I often add sesame seeds to my smoothies, and even blended soups, as I find they add incredible body and richness to just about anything. If you are the kind of person that loves drinking smoothies, but finds that you are hungry an hour later (me), sesame seeds will really help with the stick-to-your-ribs satiety factor. 

It may surprise to find out that sesame seeds are an excellent source of essential minerals. Calcium for the prevention of osteoporosis and migraines, magnesium for supporting our vascular system, zinc for bone health, selenium for antioxidant protection, and copper for reducing inflammation are just a handful of the incredibly important roles these minerals play for us. The biggest surprise of all? By weight, sesame seeds have a higher iron content than liver! 

Raw Vegan Eggnog // My New Roots 
 
If you have a high-powered blender the sesame seeds will blend up very quickly. If you have a regular blender, remember that it make take a little longer to achieve a perfectly smooth consistency. Just keep the motor running and be patient. 

The level of spiciness in this drink, I leave up to you. I like mine super nutmeg-y, but that’s not everyone’s taste, so start with just a little, blend, and add more if you’d like. The same goes for the figs: I usually make my milkshake with just one, but others might enjoy it a little sweeter. If you find that your figs are very dry, soak them the night before beside the sesame seeds, and use the soak water in the eggnog. The turmeric is really just to add a slightly creamy yellow, so it’s optional. 

Raw Vegan Eggnog // My New Roots 
 
Print recipe     

Raw Vegan Eggnog Milkshake 
Serves 1 
Ingredients: 
1 frozen banana 
1-2 dried figs (depending on how sweet you like it) 
3 Tbsp. sesame seeds, soaked for 8 hours, or overnight 
2 Tbsp. hemp seeds 
1 cup milk of choice or water 
½ tsp. ground cinnamon 
pinch of freshly grated nutmeg 
pinch of ground clove 
pinch of turmeric (for colour) 
a little squeeze of lemon juice 

Directions: 
1. Place sesame seeds in a glass with ½ tsp. of sea salt, cover with water and soak up to 8 hours. Drain and rinse well. 
2. Place all ingredients in a blender and blend on high until completely smooth. Spice to taste. Enjoy. 


If you are looking for Christmas gifts this year, don’t forget that a pre-ordered My New Roots cookbook is probably on everyone’s list, amiright? Not only that, but it comes with the added bonus of arriving in spring, when most people have long forgotten about the holidays and are in serious need of presents! Wow, didn’t I time that perfectly? I am always thinking ahead here, friends. You can preorder the My New Roots cookbook on Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Indiebound and Indigo. 
In all seriousness, I have been so overwhelmed with the outpouring of love and support from all of you about the book. I know that you are just as excited as I am to hold this collection of from-the-heart recipes in your hands. Only a few more months to go now! 

And most thrilling of all, is that my cookbook is going to be published translated into Danish and Dutch! The UK and Australia are publishing it too. Here are the release dates: 

US: March 31, 2015 
Canada: March 31, 2015 
UK: April 9, 2015 
Australia: April 9, 2015 
Netherlands: June, 2015 
Denmark: pending 

In the meantime, have a look at the gorgeous quotes below from my friends and peers who have been fortunate enough to have a sneak peak of the book. Thank you to all of them for being so incredibly generous and encouraging with their words. 

My New Roots - Inspired Plant-Based Recipes for Every Season 

“My New Roots is beautiful proof that eating with  in mind need not be a compromise. This is an unabashedly enthusiastic riff on the food-as-medicine approach to cooking and eating. Sarah’s playful and encouraging voice is infectious: you get the sense that she is waiting on the other side of each recipe to give you a high five.” 
—Heidi Swanson, author of Super Natural Every Day 

“My New Roots is filled with good ideas for fresh new ways of using plant foods. Sarah Britton shows that truly alive ingredients can result in more interesting and better-tasting recipes and are always worth seeking out.” 
—Deborah Madison, author of Vegetable Literacy and The New Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone 

“Sarah is a veggie-lovin’ culinary goddess! Her unique and seasonal plant-based creations will inspire you to fall head over heels in love with vegetables. There are so many beautiful recipes I can’t wait to make!” 
—Angela Liddon, author of The Oh She Glows Cookbook 

“I have been waiting for this book since I first started reading Sarah’s blog years ago. She has a gift for writing truly wonderful recipes, vibrant with produce, and has the knowledge to explain why these plant-based foods are good for us. Her sweet spirit shines through every page.  So thrilled to have this keeper in my kitchen!” 
—Sara Forte, author of The Sprouted Kitchen 

“Sarah’s creativity always inspires. With its vibrant recipes, evocative visuals, witty combinations, and approachable ways to live better, this book is a must for anyone interested in optimal, delicious health.” 
—Laura Wright, thefirstmess.com 

“Sarah always treads the beautiful line between making whole foods practical and also appealing, leading the way in this new real food movement.” 
—Sarah Wilson, author of I Quit Sugar 

“Being healthy and happy is so easy when you’re cooking with Sarah. Her gentle approach, love and passion for whole foods, and flair for pairing mind-blowing flavors create fabulous and fresh food that looks stunning and is bursting with personality and life-affirming goodness.  With unbelievable tastes and textures, My New Roots takes you on an exquisite journey that seduces you with every lift of the fork, leaving you voracious for vegetables.” 
—Tess Masters, author of The Blender Girl 

“It’s a rare book that delivers inspiration through its every page, yet each one of Sarah’s recipes sings with flavor and originality. The entire collection is a seductive introduction to a more wholesome way of eating and an irresistible call to the kitchen.” 
—Clotilde Dusoulier, author of The French Market Cookbook and Edible French 


START RECIPE

GHEE WHIZ! 
DECEMBER 2, 2010 

Hey you. Yeah, you. 
You’re still cooking with olive oil, aren’t you? Yup. Thought so. 
I am sure you’ve heard the news that this is a bad idea, but you’re not sure why so you just keep doing it. Sounds familiar. Sounds like me.  For years I thought I was doing myself a huge favour by switching from butter to olive oil, as my diet moved from a standard diet to an organic, plant-based, whole foods diet, but it turns out I was a little mislead. 

First off, let me explain why cooking with olive oil, and eating other heated oils can be to our detriment. 
There are many, many different kinds of fats, some of which are more delicate, or less “stable” than others, meaning that they will go off more easily. The three factors that cause fats to spoil are: 
– heat 
– light 
– oxygen 
No matter how stable a fat is, it will always in the end, succumb to one or more of these factors and putrefy. Unless we’re talking about margarine, but who would ever eat that anyway? Tee hee. 

Now we can talk about extra virgin olive oil, which is a fairly delicate fat. It has a low “smoke point”, which means that it will begin to burn at a relatively low temperature. As soon as any fat reaches its smoke point, it begins to break down and create free radicals – those horrendous, carcinogenic, unstable molecules that damage cells and cell membranes, and are associated with the development of conditions like atherosclerosis and cancer. You thought I was kidding around?! 

Extra virgin olive oil’s low smoke point (320ºF) means that is not suitable for stir-frying, sautéing, or any other high-heat cooking. Pour it all over your salads for sure, but stop using it to cook today. Seriously. There are other grades of olive oil (virgin, pure, pomace, light, refined) that are of lesser al value that can be used for higher heat cooking because they have a lower concentration of fragile nutritive components. However, most people have one type of olive oil in their pantry, and it’s of the extra virgin pursuassion because that is the one we are “supposed” to buy. Am I right? 

Okay, enough with the doom and gloom! I have a great solution! It’s called ghee, or clarified butter, and it’s been around for, oh, 5000 years. 
Ghee has been used in Indian Ayurvedic cooking for centuries, not only as a totally delicious food, but as an aid for digestion, ulcers, constipation, and the promotion of healthy eyes and skin. It is used in Indian beauty creams to help soften skin, and as a topical for the treatment of burns and blisters, which really works! I burned myself on the oven at work and put some ghee on it a few hours later. It healed miraculously quickly. 

Lovin’ me some fat 
Ghee is essentially clarified butter, made by heating regular butter until the proteins (casein) and sugars (lactose) separate from the pure butterfat. Simple. 
Depending on the source of the butter used, ghee can be very high in antioxidants, in additions to helping the body absorb vitamins and minerals from other foods, namely vitamins A, D, E, and K. 

The reason ghee is considered one of the best oils for baking, sautéing and deep-frying is due to its high smoke point (up to 480ºF). Butter burns at a lower temperature because of the presence of casein and lactose. Once removed, butterfat’s smoke point increases substantially. The other benefit of this is that people who are allergic to dairy products, or have casein or lactose intolerance can often tolerate ghee. Groovy. 

Ghee has a very long shelf life because of its low moisture content. You do not need to refrigerate it for 2-3 months if you keep it in an airtight container. This makes it ideal for traveling or camping (awesome). When kept in refrigerator, ghee can last up to a year. 

Delicious, Liquid Gold 
I guess I could go on forever about all the health benefits, long formidable, history, or how easy it is to make ghee, but the part I like best? IT TASTES INCREDIBLE. Think of that warm, nutty taste in a shortbread cookie, or a flaky croissant. Ghee is similar to butter, but you will be pleasantly surprised that it is even richer-tasting, and dare I say…cheesy? Oh you heard me. It’s crazy delicious. Spread a little on toast (guh) or drizzle it on steamed veggies, or cook with it! It’s totally safe for those of you who like a very hot pan when stir-frying, or for those that forget that you turned the element on full blast and left the kitchen to go write an email. Oops. 

You can find ghee at most health food stores, but making it yourself at home is about as easy as boiling water. Plus, when you make it yourself, you can choose the quality of the butter: remember that organic, grass-fed cows are the healthiest and make the tastiest ghee. 



Ghee 
Ingredietns: 
Organic, unsalted butter (this is important!) – I use 500g at a time (approx. 4 sticks). 

Directions: 
1. Heat the unsalted butter in a heavy-duty saucepan over low-medium heat without a lid until it’s melted. Let simmer gently until the foam rises to the top of the melted butter. The butter will make lots of spluttering sounds and perhaps splatter a bit, so be careful. 
2. Over the next 20-30 minutes (depending on the water content of your butter),  the butter carefully as 3 layers develop: a foamy top layer, a liquid butterfat layer, a milk solids bottom layer. You can remove the foamy top layer with a spoon if you like, which helps to see trough to the bottom, but this is optional – it will be strained out in the end anyway.  
3. Once the butter stops spluttering, and no more foam seems to be rising to the surface, check to see if the bottom layer has turned a golden brown colour and there is an incredible aroma of freshly baked croissants in your kitchen. If so, the ghee is ready and must be removed from the heat immediately or it will burn.  
4. Set a few layers of cheesecloth or gauze over a heatproof container, such a canning jar. Carefully pour the warm liquid butter through the cheesecloth into the container, leaving behind any solids from the bottom of the pan. Let sit at room temperature to cool and solidify before placing an air-tight lid on the container. Store in the fridge for 1 year or, out of the fridge for 2-3 months. 


Now, you’re probably wondering why the heck I have written many of my recipes for stir-frying or roasting with olive oil. Yup, good question. I guess part of me just wanted to encourage everyone to stop using Pam cooking spray, lard, and vegetable oil, and I wasn’t sure how to tackle the enormous subject of cooking fat. Now, I will firmly stand by my ghee for future recipes and you will know what I am talking about because you’ll have a jar of its golden goodness on your counter top too. Do we have a deal? Ghee whiz, I hope so. 

OKAY! Question and answer time it is! I had a feeling that this would happen ?? 
1 – I PROMISE to write a full article on vegetable-source cooking fats at some point in the very near future. This article was not meant to be about that. It was about ghee.  
In the meantime if you would like to cook with a vegetable-source fat, I would recommend coconut oil. I will elaborate on that in another post. 

2 – Yes, ghee is better than cooking with butter because butter burns at a lower temperature than ghee. Please refer to paragraph 2 in the section called “Lovin’ me some fat”. 


START RECIPE
GLUTEN-FREE BANANA BREAD PANCAKES 
JANUARY 24, 2012 

Oh, it was a lazy weekend. The kind where you sleep for the better half of the morning, and the major event of the day is boiling the kettle to make tea. Read a paragraph of some book, then pass out again. Stare out the window. Consider going for a walk: have a nap instead. 

So far, 2012 has been ram-jammed with all sorts of excitement, and I guess I just need to catch my breath. I seldom slow down enough to let two days pass without doing anything of real “consequence”, but boy when I do, I become the queen of Sloth Ville. Luckily for you, the lazy sometimes leads to crazy-yum kitchen creations. 

The one thing the sloth queen did accomplish this weekend, was making pancakes. And not just any pancakes, but Banana Bread Pancakes.  Hilariously, they started off as a desire to make the Coziest Banana Bread (since it was the coziest of weekends), but I was totally too lazy for that. Having to get out a cutting board and knife? Daunting. I let the food processor do the chopping and mixing. 

My lethargy led me to making walnut flour, instead of chopping the nuts by hand and leaving them chunky – turns out that was the best idea ever. I have never worked with walnut flour before, but it lends the most delectable nutty taste to the final product, like a walnut whisper wrapped in a warm oat-y hug. And as walnuts are best friends with banana, their complimentary flavours give high-fives all the way from your tongue to your tummy. There’s a lot of love going on in one lazy little pancake. 

The bonus is, these babies are gluten-free, which can be a nice change from the typical, wheat-centric breakfasts we all gravitate towards. Yes, they contain oats, but if you purchase gluten-free oats you’ll be guaranteed that you are getting a product that is safe even if you are Celiac. 

Gluten-free Gospel  
Gluten-free diets have become uber-trendy in the past couple years as celebrities have plugged the lifestyle as a savior for their overall health and wellness. But why would someone go gluten free if they didn’t have to? Good question. Does it seem like cool-kid train has left the station heading towards the Promised Land, while you’re still standing on the platform? It’s okay: I think you’re cool. But here’s the low-down on gluten-free eating in case you want to buy a ticket for later. 

What is Gluten? 
Gluten is the natural protein found in many grains, such as wheat, rye, barley, and spelt. Despite recent uproar and confusion, gluten is not bad for you. Some people however, have an autoimmune form of gluten intolerance known as Celiac disease and cannot digest it. Celiac disease affects nearly 3 million Americans, and those affected must avoid all foods and food products that even come into contact with gluten-containing grains. 

Are oats gluten-free? 
Short answer, yes. Oats are inherently gluten-free, but are very often grown with or processed in facilities that also handle wheat and/or other gluten-containing grains. Because oats become contaminated with gluten in this way, they are often not safe for Celiacs. However, some companies have developed dedicated processing facilities for oats only, making them safe for those who cannot tolerate any gluten whatsoever. These companies include: Bob’s Red Mill, Cream Hill Estates, GF Harvest, Avena Foods, Legacy Valley (Montana Monster Munchies), and Gifts of Nature. 

Click here for a discussion on oats in the gluten-free diet or visit Health Canada’s website for an extensive technical review on the safety of oats in the GF diet. 

Should you go gluten-free? 
Many people who are not affected by Celiac disease are making the switch to a gluten-free diet, claiming that it helps them lose weight, gain energy, improve concentration etc. Of course there can be something to that as we are all very different and react to foods in very different ways – some people find that eliminating gluten, or even just wheat makes them feel dramatically better than they did before. Great! But as we all search in vain for the “miracle diet” that will make us feel amazing, look our best, and allow us to take over the world, we must remember that there isn’t one right answer. We have to take time to listen to ourselves, and give our own bodies a real chance to tell us what is best for us. Even if your best friend gives up gluten and feels incredible, it may not necessarily be the right choice for you. 

Often the reason many people do shed a few pounds and generally ‘feel better’ eating foods without gluten, is not the avoidance of gluten itself, but the fact that they are making healthier food choices. We all know what happens when we polish off the breadbet at lunch: we feel sluggish, foggy, tired and often bloated. It’s not a coincidence – what do you think will happen when you down a loaf of white flour? 

Conversely, when you choose a gluten-free diet, your horizons are forced to expand just a little, and suddenly quinoa, amaranth, and millet make their way into your dinner. You choose fruits and veggie snacks instead of cookies and crackers. Breakfast becomes smoothies instead of cereal. Variety comes into play, and that is what makes the difference! More freshness! More produce! Less dead, -less, life-sucking white bread. Just sayin’. 

But let me be clear about another thing: wheat is not the enemy! Whole wheat is good for you. So are rye, and barley, and spelt and kamut. These grains contain gluten, yes, and are also full of protein, fiber, phytochemicals, B vitamins, folate, calcium, selenium, iron, and zinc. When prepared properly and eaten in their whole, unprocessed forms, they have many benefits. 

The problem is many of us eat wheat three times a day, often in its over-processed forms (boxed cereal, sandwich bread, pasta…), which has been stripped of most of its valuable . It’s not necessarily the wheat, it’s the way we process and consume it. 

If you want to give gluten-free eating a shot, go ahead. Perhaps you do have an insensitivity lurking around, and eliminating gluten will certainly shed some light on it. Or, perhaps you want to cut back on the wheat and introduce new and exciting foods to your diet: experiment with the amazingly diverse seeds, nuts, and grains that are on the market for you to explore. Sometimes imposing a few limitations on oneself forces creativity, which can be a very good thing when it comes to what we eat. PB&J sandwich again? We can do better than that! 

Why do I create gluten-free recipes on My New Roots? 
For the same reason I try to make as many of the dishes vegan, sugar-free, soy-free etc. – so that everyone can make them. I want to create all-inclusive meals that all people can enjoy, even if they’ve chosen a particular diet or they have some kind of allergy or insensitivity. And I feel it’s important for others to know that eating with ‘restrictions’ is not all that restrictive. 

Besides, you have that raw lacto-vegetarian coming over for dinner next week and you need something yummy to serve them, right? I shall deliver. 


Print recipe     

Gluten-free Banana Bread Pancakes 
Serves 2 

Dry ingredients: 
1/3 cup walnuts 
2/3 cup rolled oats (certified gluten-free oats if you have a sensitivity) 
1 tsp. baking soda 
pinch sea salt 

Wet ingredients: 
1 very ripe banana 
1 tsp. vanilla extract 
1 tsp. olive oil 
2/3 cup nut milk 
2 tsp. maple syrup 

For garnish: 

maple syrup 
1 banana, sliced 
a handful of walnuts, chopped 
extra-dark chocolate, grated (for a special treat!) 

Directions: 

1. In a food processor, pulse walnuts until they resemble a sand-textured powder (do not over process – you’ll end up with walnut butter!). Remove walnut ‘flour’, add oats and pulse until you get a shaggy flour. Place walnut and oats flours in a large bowl. Add baking soda, sea salt and stir to combine. 

2. Add all wet ingredients to the food processor and blend to combine. 

3. Add wet ingredients to dry ingredients and mix just until the two come together. Let batter sit for 30 minutes at room temperature. 

4. Heat a little coconut oil (or ghee) in a skillet and drop in 3 large spoonfuls of batter (you are after three, 8 cm / 3 inch sized pancakes). Spread slightly with the back of the spoon to even out the batter. Turn heat down to low. Let cook on the underside until the topside is opaque, which will take more time than a regular pancake. Check to see if the bottom has browned, and if so, flip over to cook the other side. Cook until the underside is crispy and brown (although the middle is a little moist, this is okay). 

5. Put pancake on a baking sheet in a warm oven, and cover with some foil while you make more (this will also give them time to firm up a little in the middle). Serve with pure maple syrup, fresh banana slices, chopped walnuts, and grated dark chocolate for a special treat – they are banana bread pancakes after all. 

 

I really liked these pancakes, and I am not ashamed to admit I ate the whole plate you see in the photo (what? – they’re little!) I will mention however, that these are not your diner-style fluffy white pillow pancakes. They are rich, nutty, and quite moist due to the banana holding everything together. The middle is not going to be a sponge, but almost like a just under-done cookie. Once the syrup goes on, who cares anyway? And, I did discover that these pancakes make really great snacks later on in the day. Once they cool down, they firm up substantially and are kind of nice to eat with your hands (hey, can we please remember how lazy I was? I didn’t want to wash another plate.) 

If anyone wants to get lazy next weekend and make up a batch, feel free to experiment and get back to me with results. I love hearing what you do to change up and even improve my recipes! 

Sending love from my lazy bones, 

Sarah B. 

ps – fun stuff in case you’ve missed it: 


The Weekender Magazine – I somehow made it on cover. Nuttiness. 

Interview at Hello Giggles. 

Yes, I am on Twitter now. You can follow me and stuff. 



START RECIPE 
GREEN DREAM CHLORELLA CREAM 
JUNE 1, 2011 

Okay, Sarah B. has got another superfood obsession on her hands and she needs you to get on the bandwagon so she doesn’t seem so insane (perhaps not talking in third person would also remedy this). 

What is it this time? It’s chlorella. Yup, I’m mowing down on the pond scum. Have I sunk to a new low? Nope, I’ve reached a new high in fact, all thanks to some very green algae and no fear. 

I find that most people are pretty freaked out when it comes to green things. Kale, spinach, wheatgrass juice – perhaps it’s because that colour signals “healthy”, and healthy sometimes don’t taste so good. Not that I completely disagree with ya’ll, but I think once you know how to get the green stuff down your gullet without gagging, it really ain’t so bad. How am I possibly going to convince you to eat algae? Well, I would like to think that making green things taste good is one of my fortés, and the crazy fool inside me just needs the challenge. Here we go. 

What the deuce is Chlorella? 
Chlorella is a single-celled, water-grown green alga that contains the highest chlorophyll level per ounce of any plant. Who cares? Well, you should. 
Chlorophyll is that stuff that helps plants convert energy from the sun – think of it like “vegetation blood”, as it acts nearly the same way inside us, (and for those science geeks out there, it is molecularly structured nearly the same way as hemoglobin too! Ooh! The only difference between the chlorophyll and hemoglobin molecules is the central atom – chlorophyll’s is magnesium, while hemoglobin’s is iron. Isn’t that just incredible?! Ahem.) The benefits of consuming chlorophyll-rich foods are numerous, including slowing cellular damage caused by radiation, aiding wound healing by stimulating new cell growth, building blood, reversing the mutagenic activity of some cancer-causing compounds, neutralizing toxins such as pesticides, fighting infection, improving liver function, and it even helps eliminate mouth and body odors. Yum. 

Besides being ram-jammed with good, green powers chlorella has the special distinction of containing all of the amino acids, which of course includes all of the 9 essential ones – incredible! We know that this is a very groovy thing for vegans and vegetarians because the proper balance of all the essential amino acids in the diet is required to build complete proteins in our body. FYI – by weight, chlorella is 58-60% highly-digestible protein. And while we’re on the good-for-the-vegetarians-kick, chlorella contains more B12 than liver. Liver. Boo-ya. It has the rest of the B-vitamins covered as well, along with a sizeable amount of beta-carotene, vitamins C and E, and rare trace minerals. 

On the whole, chlorella strengthens the immune system, promotes bowel health, helps to detoxify the body, cleanses the blood stream, liver, and kidneys, alleviates peptic ulcers, increases oxygen to your body’s cells and brain, promotes proper growth in children, fights infection, helps raise the pH of your body to a more alkaline state, promotes the production of friendly flora in your gastrointestinal tract, and even helps to counteract the fatigue and mood swings associated with PMS and perimenopause. Good news for everyone. 

Chlorella is a wonderful whole food supplement to take during fasts and cleanses, as it is incredibly detoxifying. Chlorella acts as a solid support because it is so nutrient-dense without saddling the body with a lot of material to metabolize. Add it to your routine during your next juice feast! 


Where can I get Green? 
Chlorella is available at health food stores and natural food shops, as well as online. It is sold in tablet form, and as a powder that looks like green cocaine, and well, costs about the same (you’re after the powder if you want to make the Chlorella Cream). Yes, chlorella is relatively expensive, but think of it as extra life insurance. And maybe instead of buying yet another pair of fancy shoes, you splurge on a special treat that actually gives you something in return, besides blisters.  
With chlorella, a little goes a long way. Even adding a teaspoon to a big ol’ smoothie will do you worlds of good. Yes, it’s a little pricey, but it lasts a very long time, and in my opinion, it’s worth every penny. 

And how does it taste? 
Darn, I knew you were going to  that.  
Ever gone down to the bottom of a lake and taken a huge mouthful of sludge? You have? Weirdo.  
That’s pretty much what chlorella tastes like. But remember how I said I have a talent for making yucky green things taste good? Trust me on this one. Even your kids will be begging you for the chlorella cream, promise. 


Green Dream Chlorella Cream 
There really isn’t a “recipe” for this per se, but here is the basic mix that I throw together. I would start with just a teaspoon of chlorella, taste, and work your way up to your flavour tolerance. You will get used to it (gasp! Maybe even like it!) over time, but start slow and build your taste for it. Your body will tell you when you’re ready to up the ante. 
Ingredients: 
½ cup raw liquid honey (vegans use maple syrup) 
1-3 tsp. chlorella 
2-4 Tbsp. raw tahini 

Directions: 
1. Place honey in a bowl and whisk in chlorella until thoroughly combined.  
2. Add the tahini, one tablespoon at a time and whisk. You can add as much tahini as you like, but I find the cream tends to become quite solid if I put in too much (plus it will depend on how runny your tahini is). I like to drizzle this stuff after all, not roll it into balls (but that could be another great snack…) 
3. Store chlorella cream in the fridge, either in a squeeze bottle for optimal drizzle action, or in a glass jar. 

You don’t have to use raw honey and raw tahini in this recipe, but it does make a difference on the health end of things. If cost and/or availability is an issue, just use whatever you have to get the green in ya! No more excuses! 

How to use Green Dream Chlorella Cream 
Right now my favorite breakfast is a large fruit salad drizzled with chlorella cream, some raw granola for crunch and maybe some nut milk if I have any on hand (speaking of which, the nut milk video is coming soon!!!). Be careful, this combo is crazy-addictive! 

Chlorella cream is a wonderful addition to smoothies. 

For a totally boss afternoon snack, try spreading chlorella cream on a rice cake, top with banana, some hemp seeds, goji berries…whatever! 

How about a delectable dessert drizzled with Green Dream Chlorella Cream? Raw Brownie? Peachy Keen Raw Cobbler? Raw Cashew Dreamcake? 

I swear you could pour chlorella cream all over a compost heap and I would probably dive in. Embarrassing? Maybe.  
I have no shame. 

Please experiment and tell me what YOU love to eat with your Green Dream Chlorella Cream. The possibilities are endless! 

Do you get why I am so stoked about this stuff?! Its like a frickin’ miracle food! Wait, it is a miracle food, and I get to stuff my face with it. So let’s get a show of hands from those who have the guts to stand up to green food and say: yes! I will try you out because I love my body and my body definitely loves you! It’s not that scary, just a silly little mental hurdle to throw yourself over. And once you’re over, oh my friends…the grass is greener for a reason. 

And the next time someone calls you pond scum, just tell them you take it as a compliment. 

Source: Balch, Phyllis A. Prescription for Dietary Wellness. New York, NY: Penguin, 2003. 


START RECIPE
GRILLED PUMPKIN BREAD WITH HONEYCOMB 
NOVEMBER 5, 2014 
pumpkinbread 
 
There are so many unexpected things I’ve gotten from blogging. Big and small things. A cookbook. A reason to use designer muffin cups. A community. A career. New friends. Offers to try a new line of microalgae. 

But my favourite things however, are those that involve super passionate people wanting to share their awesome, healthy, and often geeky fervor with me. I’m all in! Recently, I received an email from Oliver Maxwell, the founder of Bybi (translation: City Bee), which is an urban beekeeping collective here in Copenhagen. As a blog reader, Oliver was keenly aware of just how much I love bees and the things that they make, so he was kind enough to invite me out to his operation to see how this incredible grassroots company works. And meet the bees, of course. 

After a full tour, thorough honey tasting and hive visit, Oliver offered me what I can only describe as the holy grail of all bee things: honeycomb. And not just a chunk of the stuff, but an entire hive frame of it! Um, okay, really? I almost kissed him. But my husband was there too and that would have been awkward. 

I carried the frame of honeycomb home cradling it like a baby. I could see the paper bag that Oliver had put it into beginning to darken in spots where the honey was oozing and pooling. My heart raced. These are the things I live for. 

Grilled Pumpkin Bread with Honeycomb // My New Roots 
 
Bursting with excitement and trepidation as to how I would put this delicacy to due use, I scurried home, took the honeycomb out of the bag and stared at it, praying it would reveal a grand plan for itself. But nothing came. Nothing. And all I wanted to do was dive face first into the thing, devouring it all in an animal-like frenzy just because I could, but instead I gently put it down and walked away. 

A few weeks went by. Still nothing. And I remembered ing Oliver before I left how long the honeycomb would keep. He looked at me quite seriously and replied “not forever”. What does that even mean?! I could hear his words echoing in my head like a cautionary character in a horror film. The pressure continued to build to an almost crushing weight. I had to do something. 

And then, as if by magic, Yotam Ottolenghi’s newest book, Plenty More, arrived on my doorstep, a gift from my publisher. Gleefully absorbed in the rapturous inspiration of pure genius, all thoughts of my self-imposed assignment drifted away. Until I hit page 319. There it was, like a beacon in the blackest of nights, the recipe title: Grilled Banana Bread with Tahini and Honeycomb. HONEYCOMB. I was saved. 

Thoughts turned to alternative loaves (I couldn’t flat-out copy Ottolenghi!) and pumpkin was the seasonal flavour I excitedly committed to. I took my classic banana bread recipe, ed it ever-so-slightly and came up with what you have in front of you today. The loaf itself is moist, flavourful, and so very pumpkin-y, punctuated with warming spices, crunchy walnuts and dark chocolate. It is not overly sweet like so many other recipes and commercial versions of pumpkin bread I’ve tried, and I did this on purpose: if you do serve it with honeycomb, it’s important to have a little contrast, you know? The pumpkin loaf recipe is vegan, but of course the honeycomb is not. If you are vegan, or honey just isn’t your thing, the bread is delicious with date syrup, jam, or apple butter. You can grill it (highly recommended) or choose to eat it fresh – both are fantastic! But when using honeycomb, it’s a treat to have the wax melt just a little bit on the warm bread, and the honey sink into the cozy nooks and crannies of the loaf. Guh. Then you sprinkle the whole thing with flaky sea salt and devour. It’s a serious, loss-for-words kind of situation (which is convenient because your mouth will be very, very full). 

Grilled Pumpkin Bread with Honeycomb // My New Roots 
 
Bee Mine, Sweet Honeycomb 
Honey is made by female honeybees that collect nectar from flowers, mix it with enzymes and regurgitate it (yum!) into honeycomb cells. Once the water content of this concoction reduces to less than 20% (the bees beat their wings in the hive to help evaporation, wowzers!) it is considered honey. The bees then put a seal on each cell and it is stored for times when they need food, like the winter. Kept this way, honey, will in essence, last forever – this is why it is considered the only food on planet earth that never spoils. 

Honeycomb is altogether miraculous. To behold its sheer geometrical perfection is like a religious experience, and to see evidence of the deep, clear intelligence that built such a structure is humbling. It is altogether delicate and strong, housing the clear, liquid gold inside each of its cells so perfectly. Made of natural wax that the female bees excrete, it is built into the ingenious, space-saving, hexagonal cells that contain their larvae, store pollen and honey. The wax itself is totally edible, but some folks like to chew it up and spit it out after they’ve gotten all the honey out of it. The flavour of the wax depends greatly on the flowers the bees were collecting nectar from, but for the most part it is mildly sweet and mellow-tasting. 

Grilled Pumpkin Bread with Honeycomb // My New Roots 
 
The wonderful thing about purchasing honeycomb is that you know the honey is raw, unpasteurized, unclarified, unfiltered, and real. Nothing has been done to it. It is loaded with all the things that make honey good for us, like enzymes, propolis, and all of its antimicrobial, antiviral and antifungal properties. It may surprise you to learn that most of the commercial honey available in the grocery store has been pasteurized and ultra-filtered, rendering it rather ineffectual. It is also important to check the label on your honey, as some brands cut their product with less expensive high-fructose corn syrup and other processed sweeteners. Like with so many foods these days, purchasing locally from a reliable source is the only way to ensure a clean and totally natural product. 

Look for honeycomb at farmers markets and natural food stores. Late summer and autumn are usually when farmers harvest their honey so it will be freshest at this time of year. If you purchase fresh honeycomb in plastic, transfer it to a sealable glass container when you get home. Store in a dark place at room temperature. 

Grilled Pumpkin Bread with Honeycomb // My New Roots 
 
Print recipe   

Grilled Pumpkin Bread with Honeycomb 
Serves 10-12 
Ingredients: 
¼ cup milk of your choice (nut, seed, goat, rice…) 
6 Tbsp. coconut oil, melted 
6 Tbsp. pure maple syrup 
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract 
2 cups pumpkin puree (I used 1 small Hokkaido pumpkin of 2 lbs / 1kg) 
2 cups / 350g wholegrain spelt flour 
1 tsp. baking soda 
1 tsp. baking powder 
½ tsp. fine grain sea salt 
2 tsp. ground cinnamon 
1 tsp. ground cardamom 
½ tsp. freshly grated nutmeg 
1/8 tsp. ground clove 
1 cup / 100g walnuts, roughly chopped (substitute with any other nut or seed, if desired) 
½ cup / 50g chopped dark chocolate (optional, but delicious) 

Fresh honeycomb (from an organic source, if possible) 
Flaky sea salt to garnish 

Directions: 
1. If making your own pumpkin puree, preheat oven to 400°F / 200°C. Slice the pumpkin in half, scoop out the seeds and place on a baking sheet, cut sides down and roast until soft, about 30 minutes (time varies depending on the size of your pumpkin). When cool enough to handle, place both halves in a food processor and blend on high until as smooth as possible (for extra nutrients and ease, try and find a pumpkin with edible skin, such as Hokkaido). 
2. Reduce oven to 350°F / 175°C. 
3. Line a standard loaf pan with baking paper, or lightly oil and dust with flour, shaking out excess (a silicon loaf pan works well too). 
4. Put the milk, oil, maple syrup, vanilla, and pumpkin puree in a blender and blend until smooth. 
5. In a large bowl combine dry ingredients. Add pumpkin mixture and combine using as few stroked as possible. Fold in nuts and chocolate. 
6. Pour batter into a loaf pan and smooth the top. Bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 60 minutes. Remove from loaf pan and let cool on a wire rack. 
7. To serve, toast or grill slices of the pumpkin loaf until warm and crusty. Slice a portion of honeycomb, let sit on the warm bread until very soft, then smash with a knife, sprinkle with good, flaky sea salt and enjoy. 


Grilled Pumpkin Bread with Honeycomb // My New Roots  


START RECIPE

GUEST POST FROM GREEN KITCHEN STORIES: RAW SPROUTED GRANOLA WITH YOGHURT, BLUEBERRY SAUCE AND FRESH FRUIT 
APRIL 9, 2012  

Hello friends! I am back from Turkey – what a fantastic trip. I have lots of stories, photos, and inspiration to share, but I was lucky enough to have my friends over at Green Kitchen Stories write the post this week while I get back into the groove.  

For those of you who aren’t familiar with Green Kitchen Stories, you are in for a real treat. Created by the über-talented couple David and Luise, GKS is a veritable gold mine of recipes, cooking techniques, and healthy advice for anyone in of need of culinary inspiration. The enormous success and popularity of their blog has allowed them to branch off into other avenues, such as their fantastic Green Kitchen app, and most recently, a cookbook deal! I can’t tell you how excited I am to hold a copy in my hungry little hands, along with the many other GKS groupies. 

I have been blog buddies with David and Luise for some time now (as you may recall the White Velvet Soup guest post I wrote for them back in the day), but it wasn’t unti l just a couple weeks ago I had the pleasure of meeting them in person. Over green juices in the sunshine we finally got to sit face-to-face, connect, and discuss all the things we are so passionate about (you can guess that it was a long talk). They are a totally down-to-earth, humble, and immensely inspiring pair that I feel honored to know. I want to extend a huge thanks to both of them (and their adorable taste-testing toddler), for creating this gorgeous breakfast that will take us all out the morning meal rut!  

Are you caught in The Bad Breakfast ritual? Are you sick of toast, coffee and orange juice? Are you always tired, stressed and grumpy in the morning? Fear not, pick up your phone and call the Green Kitchen Stories Breakfast Hotline – We Promise You a Better Morning!  
Ok, just a little bit of hubris there. But seriously, we know how it is. You want to get those few minutes of extra sleep and make a quick decision to have a to-go coffee instead of eating a proper breakfast at home. We were totally like that before we had our daughter. We are both late sleepers. So much, that David often even skipped breakfasts completely and Luise more than once has been seen running out the door with her morning smoothie spilled over half her t-shirt, just to get a few minutes extra sleep. Well, that was then. Now Elsa pulls us up from our bed early every morning. And all of a sudden we have at least a full hour to spend in the kitchen before heading to work. So nowadays our breakfast rituals are constantly evolving. Porridge, baked oatmeal, pancakes, fruit salad, omelet, frittata, yogurt, rye bread, granola, smoothie. Been there done that. When you got a lot of time you realize that there is a whole world of breakfasts to explore. So if you don’t have kids yet, make sure to set that alarm clock half an hour earlier (no snoozing!), and you will find that breakfasts actually can be pretty darn delicious. 
Our latest breakfast love affair is this raw sprouted granola. It is less sweet and more crunchy than a normal granola, and if you serve it with a blueberry sauce, yogurt and some fresh fruit, you have yourself a perfect breakfast (and if you add some honey on the top it could also become the perfect dessert). We are not going to loose ourselves in al values, or explain the advantages with sprouting, nobody does that like Sarah B! We can however tell you that both buckwheat and quinoa are gluten free seeds, so hooray for that! 


How to sprout Buckwheat & Quinoa Seeds 
You will need: 
2 glass jars 
2 screen lids (if you don’t have a screw on sprouting lid you can make your own with a cheesecloth, a hardware cloth OR a nylon stocking and a rubber band) 
1 cup buckwheat seeds (hulled groats) 
½ cup quinoa 

Directions: 
1. Start by rinsing your seeds in a strainer under running water, then pick out any dark seeds, stones or any imperfect seeds. Transfer your seeds into the sprouting jar.  
2. Add 2-3 times as much, fresh water. Soak for at least 30 minutes (buckwheat take up all the water they need quickly), then drain off the soak water. Rinse the seeds until the water runs clear and drain very thoroughly.  
3. Set your sprouting jar in a bright place (out of direct sunlight) at room temperature. Rinse and drain well about every 4 hours (no, you don’t have to go up at night). The sprouts will be done in 36-48 hours or when the sprouting tail is as long as the seed. (Quinoa sprouts quicker than buckwheat).  
Store in a sealed container and put them in your refrigerator. Use within 1-2 weeks. 

Raw Sprouted Granola with Yoghurt, Blueberry Sauce and Fresh Fruit 
Serves 4 

Granola 
½ cup golden linseeds 
½ cup pumpkin seeds 
½ cup dried apricots & prunes 
2 cups buckwheat sprouts (see above) 
1 cup quinoa (see above) 
1 tsp. vanilla extract OR ½ tsp ground vanilla powder 
4 Tbsp. sweetener of your choice (liquid honey, agave, apple syrup etc) 
Directions: 
1. Put linseeds, pumpkin seeds, apricots and prunes in a large bowl and cover with water. Let them soak for at least 1 hour. Drain the excess water.  
2. Add the rest of the ingredients and stir around. Evenly spread the batter onto two baking sheets or dehydrator sheets. Place in the oven on the lowest temperature possible OR in a dehydrator for about 6-8 hours or until golden and crispy. 

Blueberry & Apple Sauce 
Ingredients: 
1 cup blueberries (frozen are fine) 
1 medium size apple, diced  
2 TBSP unsweetened apple juice (or sweetener of your choice) 
Directions: 
Place all ingredients in a small pot on the stove over medium heat. Bring to a boil and lower the heat, let simmer for 20 minutes. Turn off the heat and puree with an emersion blender or fork if you like it chunky. 
How to Assemble: 
– Blueberry & Apple Sauce 
– Buckwheat & Quinoa Granola 
– A full-fat organic yoghurt (Greek/Turkish) 
– Fruit salad 
Place 2 spoonful of blueberry sauce in the bottom of the glass, then 2-3 spoonfuls of granola, 2-3 spoonfuls of yoghurt and finally some fruit salad on top. Good morning! 


START RECIPE

HOMEMADE GOAT’S MILK RICOTTA ON TOAST WITH ROASTED FRUITS 
FEBRUARY 21, 2012 

What if I told you that you were about 60 minutes away from fresh, homemade ricotta, including the clean up? Would you say I was full of cheese?  Well, it turns out I am. Full of it. And it’s delicious. 

As most of you know from reading My New Roots, I am not a huge dairy lover, but there are exceptions – those of which include most dairy of the goat persuasion. Once in a while, a girl just needs a little cheese in her life. I was inspired to make ricotta at home from a video I saw kicking around the web about Salvatore Brooklyn, an artisanal cheese producer in New York. A wife-and-wife team of exceptionally enthusiastic foodies, created their own successful business making the best ricotta this side of Italy. I was so moved by these two that I ran out, bought some milk and headed for the kitchen, only to be sitting down to a gourmet lunch about an hour later. Unheard of! I was almost disappointed that it was so easy. Almost. All pretend upset was quickly forgotten upon the moment my lips graced yet another bite of rich, creamy, delicate cheese that I had in fact, made all by myself. 

Ricotta hails from Italy, where it is traditionally made from the leftover whey from cheese production. The ladies from Salvatore Brooklyn however, make theirs from whole milk, making it far richer than the traditional type. I followed suit. 

And why goats milk, you ? I feel like I’ve beaten that drum enough times already (you can read more about my feelings here and here), but I will tackle the new topic of homogenization. 


Homogenized milk: A threat to our health? 

Homogenization is the process by which cow’s milk is treated under extremely high amounts of pressure so that it does not separate into its respective fat layers when it is stored. For those of you that remember the milk man coming around to deliver the day’s supply, you may recall the extremely rich “cream layer” that formed at the top, as the milk at that time was not yet homogenized.  This seemed to be an issue for people, the whole “shaking the bottle” ordeal. If only we’d known we were ing for trouble when doing away with this inconvenience – but isn’t this always the case when we mess with Mother Nature? 

Although it may not seem like a big deal, homogenization changes the milk’s normal, natural, and healthy fat structure into microscopic spheres of fat containing a powerful digestive enzyme called xanthine oxidase (XO). Kurt A. Oster, M.D., who worked during the 1960s through the 1980s, hypothesized that homogenization posed a threat to our health, as these teeny spheres of fat are small enough to pass right through the stomach and intestines, without being digested first, leaving XO to float freely around in the blood and lymphatic systems. When XO breaks free from its fat envelope, it attacks the inner wall of whatever vessel it is in. This creates a wound. The wound then signals the body to send a sort of patching “plaster” to seal off the wound, bringing a number of plaque-forming substances, including cholesterol, to the site of the damage. [1] You can imagine what happens after years of this process going on in the body, patching injured arterial walls over and over again: atherosclerosis, or “hardening of the arteries”, leading to heart attack and stroke. Although Oster’s theories have been criticized, his work is continually published in regards to this subject and highly regarded among respected natural health practitioners. 

Where am I getting at with all this? Well, it’s just one more reason to carefully consider giving cows milk the boot and introducing a little goat dairy into your life. The fat globules in goat’s milk are smaller, allowing it to remain naturally homogenized and needing no mechanical processing. I repeat: goat’s milk is naturally homogenized, easier to digest and comes without the potential dangers associated with homogenized cow’s milk. 


Print recipe     

Homemade Goat’s Milk Ricotta Cheese 
Recipe from Honest Cooking 
Makes about 1 cup  
Ingredients: 
4 cups / 1 liter goat’s milk 
1 tsp. sea salt 
3 Tbsp. freshly squeezed lemon juice 
Equipment: 
1 stainless steel or ceramic pot (non-reactive material, like aluminum) 
1 large piece cheesecloth 
1 bowl 
string 

Directions: 
1. In a large pot, add the goat’s milk and salt. Heat gently on low-medium heat, stirring occasionally to keep the milk from scorching on the bottom. 
2. Just before the milk boils (no need for a thermometer, just  carefully), take it off the heat, add the lemon juice and give it a gentle stir (you should see the milk split almost instantly). Let the pot sit undisturbed for 5 minutes. 
3. While you’re waiting for the milk to become cheese, line a bowl with cheesecloth. 
4. Pour the milk mixture gently into the bowl. Pick up the sides of the cloth, tie a string around the top and hang, leaving the curds inside the cloth, and letting the whey drip out into the bowl. 
5. After 45 minutes to 1 hour, your ricotta should be ready to eat.  If you prefer a richer, thicker cheese, let it hang for another hour or so. Remember the longer hanging time, the denser cheese. Store leftovers in a glass container in the fridge. 

 
I just know that someone is going to  what to do with the leftover whey, because you’re all such fantastically aware, non-food-wasters. Whey makes an excellent smoothie base, as it contains high-quality protein. You can also add it to soups, stews, or use it bread baking instead of water. And although I have not tried it yet, use whey to boil rice or other grains in place of water or broth. 


Print recipe     

Ricotta on Toasts with Roasted Fruit 
Inspired by the recipe in Real Simple, September 2011 (couldn’t find direct link)  
Ingredients: 
1 pear, sliced 
a couple handfuls of grapes 
coconut oil or ghee, melted 
sea salt 
black pepper 
thyme 
honey 

whole grain sourdough bread, sliced 
Homemade Goat’s Milk Ricotta 

Directions: 
1. Preheat oven to 450°F / 230 °C 
2. Toss fruits in oil just to lightly coat. Roast in the oven for 8-10 minutes until grapes skins split and pears are lightly caramelized. 
3. Meanwhile toast some bread and smear it with your fresh ricotta. Add roasted fruits, drizzle with honey, sea salt, black pepper and serve. 
Making this cheese is such a dramatic and empowering process that you will undoubtedly be dazzled by your culinary abilities. Kids will also love to get involved with this, and because it is so simple they will not only achieve a successful product, but feel a sense of accomplished and connection to their food. If you have never had the pleasure of creating something from scratch that you previously thought you had to purchase, I urge you to give this a try. 

I am receiving a lot of questions about where I am working these days, the Nordic Food Lab, so if you are curious, have a look at this video put out by The Guardian. 

Bonus recipe! Check out my Quinoa Salad with Peas and Cashews at Bon Appetit. 


START RECIPE

CHEESY PESTO PIZZA BITES 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
4 ounces fresh basil leaves 
1/4 cup pine nuts 
2 medium cloves garlic 
1/4 cup olive oil 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 French baguette 
1 cup tomato sauce 
1 cup vegan shredded mozzarella cheese 

What you do:  
1) In a food processor, grind basil, pine nuts and garlic in a food processor until finely chopped. Add olive oil and salt and process 10 to 15 seconds, or until oil is incorporated. 

2) Preheat oven to broil and prepare a baking sheet by either lightly greasing with oil or lining with aluminum foil. 

3) Slice baguette into 1” slices. Place in a single layer on prepared baking sheet and spread approximately 1 teaspoon pesto on each slice. Next, top each with approximately 1 to 2 teaspoons tomato sauce, then sprinkle with vegan cheese. Broil for 5 to 10 minutes or until vegan cheese has melted. Remove from oven and allow to cool slightly before consuming. 

Preparation Time:  
10 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
10 minutes 
Servings:  
4 
Recipe Category:  
Appetizers 
Miscellaneous Appetizers 
Miscellaneous Pizza 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
Be the first to add a comment. 

Log in or register to post comments 


START RECIPE

CRUNCHY DILL AND “SOUR CREAM” POTATO BITES 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
1 large russet potato 
¼ cup non-dairy sour cream 
¾ teaspoon garlic salt 
½ teaspoon + ¼ teaspoon dried dill weed, divided 
½ teaspoon onion powder 
½ cup panko 

What you do:  
Preheat oven to 325º F. Grease baking sheet and set aside. 

Combine sour cream, garlic salt, ½ teaspoon dill weed and onion powder in a small bowl. Place remaining ¼ teaspoon dill weed and panko in a separate small bowl, mixing to combine. 

Scrub potato and cut into bite-size peices. Dip each piece into sour cream mixture then roll in panko mixture. Place in a single layer on prepared baking sheet and spray with cooking oil. 

Bake in preheated oven for 55-60 minutes, stirring halfway through, or until bites are golden brown. 

Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Appetizers 
Breakfast Potatoes 
Potlucks & Picnics 
Thanksgiving 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE


VEGAN MUSHROOM TENDERS 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
one pack of king oyster mushroom ( 4 in a pack usually) 

generous amount of oil for frying 

for wet batter: 

3.5 oz of popato starch 

1/2 cup water 

2 tsp garlic powder 

2 tsp chili powder 

1 tsp cayenne pepper 

1 1/2 tsp oregano 

1 tsp onion powder 

1 tsp black pepper 

1/2 tsp salt (add more if you like salty food) 

for dry batter 

3 oz whole wheat flour 

.7 oz potato starch 

 

 
 
What you do:  
1. wash mushrooms and store in freezer overnight  

2. thaw it for 5~10 min 

3. cut each mushrooms into 4 pieces and then slit the left and right side of quartered mushrooms  

3. mix all wet batter ingredients in a bowl and put mushrooms in, coat them well 

4. mix dry batter in a zip lock bag and put mushrooms in and shake them well 

5. heat oil and fry them twice for golden brown color  

Preparation Time:  
30min 
Cooking Time:  
15~20 min 
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Batter-Fried Appetizers 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 3 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Liked 
 
twety 


START RECIPE


FRIED TOFU WONTONS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
7 ounces firm organic tofu, drained and pressed 
1 tablespoon light soy sauce 
1/2 teaspoon toasted sesame oil 
1/2-1 teaspoon Sriracha sauce 
1 tablespoon minced scallions 
1 teaspoon dried minced onion 
1/2 teaspoon cumin powder 
1/4 teaspoon turmeric 
1-2 pinches salt 
1 tablespoon cornstarch + 2 tablespoons water 
1 (48 count) package vegan wonton wrappers (I use Twin Marquis) 
1-2 tablespoons oil 

What you do:  
1. In a bowl, break down the pressed tofu into a meal like texture. Then add the remaining ingredients except the cornstarch, wontons, and oil, and stir to properly mix. Place in the fridge. 
2. Make a vegan egg by mixing the cornstarch and water. Use a brush to wet the edges of the wontons with the vegan egg mix, and place about 1 to 1 1/2 teaspoons tofu in the center of each wonton. 
3. Fold into a triangle ensuring that the edges are sealed (also avoid air pockets). Then take one wet corner and fold it over the other to create desired shape. Again ensure the corners are sealed against each other. 
4. Pan sear the wontons in the oil at medium heat for about 1 minute on each side. If the oil is too hot, the wontons will burn and, if it is too low, they will be greasy. Place hot fried wontons on a paper towel and salt. 
I serve this with low sodium soy sauce mixed with sriracha and a few drops of toasted sesame oil and it is wicked awesome. 
For picture instructions, see blog: 
Source of recipe: http://thewitchykitchen.blogspot.com/2010/05/tasty-tofu-wontons.htmlcom... 

Preparation Time:  
45 minutes, Cooking time: 2 to 3 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
2 to 3 minutes 
Servings:  
6 to 8 
Recipe Category:  
Wonton Rolls 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 4 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Liked 
 
pbsump 
Looks good and from the looks of other commentors here that tried it seems to taste good as wel 


START RECIPE


JAPCHAE (KOREAN SWEET POTATO NOODLES) 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
1/4 of a bag of dangmyun (Korean Sweet Potato Noodles) 

3 Chinese Mushrooms (pre-soaked for 20 minutes) /Fresh Shitake, stalks removed 

2 stalks of green leafy vegetables, chopped 

1 carrot, sliced 

1 onion, sliced 

2 cloves of garlic, chopped 

1 teaspoon of sesame seeds 

Seasonings 

3 tablespoons of sesame oil 

4 tablespoons of light soy sauce 

1 teaspoon of sugar 

Salt, pepper to taste 

 

What you do:  
1. In a heated wok or pan, stir-fry onions and garlic until fragrant. 

2. Add mushrooms to the wok/pan and continue to stir-fry.  

3. Place the noodles in the wok /pan and stir-fry over high heat, stirring constantly to avoid noodles from sticking to the wok/pan. 

4. Add your favourite leafy vegetables and carrot and stir-fry for 3 to 5 minutes. 

5. Add seasonings and sesame seeds. Combine the ingredients well. 

6. Garnish with parsley (optional) and serve! 

Preparation Time:  
15 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
20 minutes 
Servings:  
Two 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Appetizers 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
Be the first to add a comment. 

Log in or register to post comments 


START RECIPE

CHEEZE BALL 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 package (8 ounces) vegan cream cheese, softened (I use Tofutti) 
1 (10 ounce) block vegan cheddar cheese, softened and shredded (I use cheddar Rella) 
1/4 cup vegan margarine, softened 
1-2 tablespoons steak sauce or vegan Worcestershire sauce 
few dashes liquid smoke 
chopped nuts, to coat (almonds or walnuts are both good) 

What you do:  
1. Mix vegan cream cheese, cheese, and margarine. Add the steak sauce or vegan Worcestershire sauce and liquid smoke. 
2. Beat with an electric mixer until creamy. Refrigerate at least 4 hours. 
3. Shape into a ball, then roll ball in chopped nuts. 
Eat on top of crackers. This is a wonderful appetizer that my grandmother makes every Christmas (of course, her version is not vegan). I didn't even think about trying to make a vegan version until last night when I was looking around the apartment for something to spread on top of the crackers that I had bought. 

Preparation Time:  
30 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
6-8 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Appetizers 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 19 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Like 


START RECIPE


ZUCCHINI BITES 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
2 tablespoons vegan parmesan or al yeast 
1 tablespoon parsley 
salt, to taste 
pinch garlic powder 
1/4 cup vegan mayonnaise (I love Vegenaise!) 
2 zucchini, sliced 1/4 to 1/2 

What you do:  
1. Preheat toaster oven or regular oven to broil. In a small bowl, mix together vegan parmesan, parsley, salt, and garlic powder. 
2. Spread a tiny bit of vegan mayo on one side of a zucchini round, and dip the side with the mayo into the bowl of parmesan mix so that the parmesan sticks the the mayo. 
3. Place the zucchini parmesan side up on a baking sheet. Repeat with remaining zucchini. Stick pan in the oven until the tops look golden, about 10 minutes. 
You can cook these so they are still a little firm like finger food, or if they get a bit too cooked, you can eat them as a side with a fork. Yum! 
Source of recipe: My mother used to make these but they were not vegan. I used to love these little bites of yummy zukes and found that it was super easy to veganize. 

Preparation Time:  
7 minutes, Cooking time: about 10 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
about 10 minutes 
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Appetizers 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 12 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Liked 


START RECIPE


SPRING ROLLS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
Spring rolls: 
6 ounces firm tofu, pressed and sliced 1/2 thick (not silken) 
2 tablespoons soy sauce, tamari, or Bragg's liquid aminos 
6 ounces thin rice noodles (vermicelli) 
12 spring roll rice paper wrappers (I like Flying Goose) 
48 fresh mint leaves 
1/4 head leaf lettuce, torn into 3-4 strips 
3 carrots, shredded, optional Sweet dipping sauce: 
4 tablespoons sugar 
1/4 cup soy sauce 
1 cup broth or water 
1 clove garlic 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons corn starch 
1/4 cup cold water 

What you do:  
1. Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Put the tofu slices on a nonstick cookie pan. Add the soy sauce, trying to keep it on the tofu as much as possible. Bake for about 45 minutes, turning occasionally and adding more soy sauce if they look like they can absorb more. 
2. When they are brown and dry, cut them into strips, about the size of French fries. You will need one strip per spring roll. (If you don't have time to bake the tofu, cut it into strips and fry it with the soy sauce on a nonstick skillet for a few minutes, carefully turning each strip, trying to crisp it up a little on each side.) Set aside. 
3. Throw the rice vermicelli into boiling water and cook until just done, about 2 or 3 minutes. Pour into a colander, and rinse with cool water. The noodles need to be well drained and cool enough to handle. Set aside. Put 1-2 water in a pan that is big enough to hold the spring rolls. 
4. Separate the wrappers, and stack them in the water, making sure each one is completely covered with water before putting in the next one. Leave the wrappers in the water until they are flexible (about 2 or 3 minutes). Remove the whole stack at once, and place them on a clean wet kitchen towel, covering them with another damp towel. 
5. Now you are ready to assemble them. Carefully remove 1 wrapper and put it on another surface (I use a bamboo sushi mat, but you could easily use another damp towel. Working quickly, put onto the wrapper 3 or 4 small pieces of lettuce, 4 leaves mint, a handful rice noodles, 1 strip tofu, and a few tablespoons carrots, if desired. 
6. Quickly fold the bottom of the wrapper over the pile, fold in the sides, and continue to roll up. After 4 or 5 are done, wrap each in plastic wrap to keep them from drying out too much. If one of them is falling apart, wrap it in plastic wrap immediately. 
7. For sauce, combine vegan sugar, soy sauce, and broth. Bring to a boil. Crush the garlic with the salt. Mix the corn starch and cold water, add, and stir until the mixture thickens some. Simmer, stirring for 1 minute. Stir in garlic. Serve any temperature. 
Serve spring rolls cold or room temperature with sauces of your choice. Do not cook these spring rolls. When you finish rolling them up, they are done! They will keep in the refrigerator for a day or two. They travel well for lunches and outings. For an appetizer, serve one or two per person. As a main course, count on at least three per person. 

Preparation Time:  
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
12 
Recipe Category:  
Spring Rolls 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 8 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Like 


START RECIPE

LUMPIA 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
vegetable oil, as needed for frying 
1/2 package (8 ounces) firm tofu, pressed and mashed 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 cup white onion, finely diced 
1/2 cup carrot, finely diced 
1/3 cup green onion, thinly sliced 
1/2 cup green cabbage, shredded 
1 small green pepper, finely diced 
1/2 cup bean sprouts, finely diced 
1 teaspoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
salt and pepper, to taste 
1 (30 count) package lumpia wrappers 
sweet and sour sauce, to serve 

What you do:  
1. In a deep fryer or a large deep frying pan, add the vegetable oil and bring to medium heat. In a large bowl, combine all the ingredients except the lumpia wrappers and sweet and sour sauce. 
2. Separate the lumpia wrappers (be careful, they are very thin) and add 2 tablespoons or so of the mixture into the center of the wrapper, creating a line across the center of the wrapper. 
3. Fold over the right and left sides of the wrapper onto the filling, then roll the lumpia wrapper like a rug from bottom to top. 
4. Use water to seal the end of the wrapper to the roll. Fry the lumpia until golden brown on all sides. Serve with sweet and sour sauce. 
Instead of tofu, one could use finely chopped ground seitan, just veggies, or even tempeh. It is traditionally filled with ground meat. Lumpia wrappers are easy to find at most Asian grocery stores. A variety of sauces could be used for dipping. I made a homemade sweet and sour sauce, but a sweet chili sauce would be good as well as a soy sauce or vinegar sauce. 
This (http://the-empty-fridge.blogspot.com/2011/01/lumpiang-shanghai-for-kulin...) is a good picture instruction guide for rolling lumpia. 
Source of recipe: I wrote the recipe. For more information, please see my blog here: http://veganmiss.blogspot.com/2012/02/lumpia.html 

Preparation Time:  
20 minutes, Cooking time: 15 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
15 minutes 
Servings:  
6 
Recipe Category:  
Spring Rolls 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 22 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Li 


START RECIPE


SAMOSAS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
Dough: 
1 cup flour 
3 tablespoons oil 
salt, to taste Stuffing: 
1/4 cup green peas 
oil, as needed for frying 
1 teaspoon cumin seeds 
1 or 2 green chilies, chopped 
1 teaspoon ginger paste 
3 medium potatoes, boiled and mashed 
1 teaspoon red chilli powder 
1 teaspoon dry mango powder 
1/2 teaspoon garam masala 

What you do:  
1. Mix the dough ingredients. Add very little water and make a hard dough. Keep it under a moist cloth for 30 minutes. Boil potatoes until tender, drain, and mash. Cook green peas in salted boiling water. Drain the water. 
2. Heat little oil in pan and add cumin seeds. When they start to change color, add green chilies, ginger, potatoes and peas. Add salt, red chilli powder, mango powder and garam masala. Stir well. 
3. Sprinkle in little water and cook for 1-2 minutes. Divide the dough into 8 portions and roll them into balls. Apply little flour and roll them out.
4. Cut balls in 1/2 and apply water on the edges of the diameter to shape it into cones. Stuff it with the potato stuffing. Seal the edges again using water as a glue. Deep fry on medium heat until crisp and golden brown. 
Can be frozen before frying. 

Preparation Time:  
1 hour 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
16 
Recipe Category:  
Samosas 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 4 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Liked 


START RECIPE

MIKE'S FAMOUS PIZZA DOUGH 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
4.5 Cups All-Purpose White Flour 

2 Cups of Warm Water, separated into 1 cup and 1 cup (110 degrees Fahrenheit) 

1 Packet of Active Yeast 

1T of Agave (or sweetener of your choice) 

2.5tsp Onion Powder 

2.5tsp Garlic Powder 

1.5tsp Salt 

Drizzle of Olive Oil (for the bowl). You could also use Pam or something if you prefer. 

You’ll Also Need: 

Pizza stone (if you don’t have one, you can use a baking sheet, but the end product won’t be as good). 

Pizza peel (if you don’t have one, you can use the back of a baking sheet to build the pizza, and slide it onto your stone) 

Parchment paper (if you don’t have it, you can use a light layer of cornmeal on the peel (or baking sheet) so that the dough doesn’t stick to it. 

Pizza sauce (Mike’s Famous Recipe coming soon!) 

Toppings of your choice! 

What you do:  
 Preheat the oven to 500 degrees Fahrenheit, with the baking stone inside. You want the stone to sit in the oven for at least an hour at the 500 degree temp. 

Add 1 cup of the warm water into a mixing bowl with the yeast and agave. Whisk it until mixed, and set it aside. Wait 10 minutes. 

After 10 minutes, the water should have foam on top. This is how you know the yeast is active (the agave is like food for the yeast). 

Add the rest of the ingredients except for the oil into a mixing bowl (or a stand mixer if you prefer). 

If you’re using a stand mixer- be sure to use a dough hook attachment. Mix all ingredients on a low setting until the dough ball forms. 

Remove the dough ball and knead it a bit by hand to ‘neaten’ it up. 

If you’re working by hand- knead the dough until the dough ball forms. 

The dough ball should be smooth on the outside and not sticky. Add a little flour as you go if it is still sticky. 

Cut the dough into three- 13oz (approx.) balls. 

If you’re not using all three right away, wrap the additional balls tightly in plastic wrap and freeze them. 

Add a little oil to the bottom of a bowl and wipe it up and around the sides with a napkin so that it’s evenly spread out. 

Put the dough ball in the bowl and let it sit at room temperature (or a little warmer) until it doubles in volume (approximately 1-1.5 hours). The warmer the air, the faster the dough will rise.  

Lay out parchment paper (on a pizza peel if you have one) on the counter. 

Release the dough from the bowl by flipping it upside down and waiting until it falls out onto the paper. 

With your palm, push the dough ball down and start pushing the sides out from the middle. The dough will try to shrink again, so just keep working until it’s the right shape. 

Assemble your toppings! (The fun part for the kids to do!) 

Using your pizza peel, “shimmy” the pizza onto the stone in the preheated oven with the parchment paper still underneath. 

Bake for 10 minutes, or until golden brown around the edges and all the cheese is melted. 

 

See more pictures and get pizza-making tips here: http://nowheynocow.com/2013/07/18/mikes-famous-pizza-dough/ 

Preparation Time:  
1 hour 50 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
10 minutes 
Servings:  
Makes three 16-inch pizzas 
Recipe Category:  
Pizza 
Pizza Dough 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
Be the first to add a comment. 



START RECIPE


CHEESY PESTO PIZZA BITES 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
4 ounces fresh basil leaves 
1/4 cup pine nuts 
2 medium cloves garlic 
1/4 cup olive oil 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 French baguette 
1 cup tomato sauce 
1 cup vegan shredded mozzarella cheese 

What you do:  
1) In a food processor, grind basil, pine nuts and garlic in a food processor until finely chopped. Add olive oil and salt and process 10 to 15 seconds, or until oil is incorporated. 

2) Preheat oven to broil and prepare a baking sheet by either lightly greasing with oil or lining with aluminum foil. 

3) Slice baguette into 1” slices. Place in a single layer on prepared baking sheet and spread approximately 1 teaspoon pesto on each slice. Next, top each with approximately 1 to 2 teaspoons tomato sauce, then sprinkle with vegan cheese. Broil for 5 to 10 minutes or until vegan cheese has melted. Remove from oven and allow to cool slightly before consuming. 

Preparation Time:  
10 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
10 minutes 
Servings:  
4 
Recipe Category:  
Appetizers 
Miscellaneous Appetizers 
Miscellaneous Pizza 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
Be the first to add a comment. 

Log in or register to post comments 


START RECIPE


PURPLE PIZZA EATER 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
Dough 
2 1/4 teaspoon dry active yeast 
1 cup warm water 
2 cups flour 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon of each rosemary, curry powder, and dried parsley 

Pizza Toppings 
1/2 cup kidney beans 
1/2 cup black beans 
1/2 cup beets (shredded fresh or canned) 
1 teaspoon minced garlic 
1 teaspoon curry powder 
3 to 4 tablespoons olive oil 
1/2 bell pepper, chopped (yellow or red are best) 
1 stalk celery, chopped 
1 cup broccoli and/or cauliflower 
1 zucchini, chopped 
1/2 medium sized tomato, chopped 
1/2 cup corn 
garlic salt, to taste 
pepper, to taste 

What you do:  
My boyfriend and I came up with this delicious recipe for purple pizza! The beets give it a nice colour! 
The above measurements (with the exception of the dough) are very rough. My boyfriend and I wanted pizza so we pretty much just threw together everything we had in the house. You can experiment with it and change things to your liking! Add whatever other toppings you want, too...I think kalamata olives would be an excellent addition. 
1) To make the dough, put 1 cup of water into a small bowl and add the yeast. DO NOT STIR! Let it sit for about 10 minutes. Mix together your 2 Cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt, and curry, rosemary, and parsley. Add whatever other spices or flavorings you want in your pizza crust. Add yeast mixture and stir until you get a sticky ball of dough. Cover with a damp cloth and set aside to rise for 30 minutes. When you have about five minutes left, preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. 
2) While your dough is rising, take the black beans, red/kidney beans, olive oil, garlic, curry powder, and beets and put them in the blender (something powerful like a VitaMix works best) or a food processor. Blend until everything is mixed well. You should have a thick, very slightly chunky consistency. Set aside. 
3) Meanwhile, chop your veggies and set to the side. 
4) When your dough is ready, flour a large surface area and a rolling pin and roll out your dough. If it's too sticky, roll it around in some flour and knead it until it's easy to work with. Roll out flat to your desired pizza size, making sure not to make it too thin. If you leave a little bit of height at the edges you'll end up with a nice, thick crust. If you even it out everywhere your crust will be flatter and thinner. 
5) Spread the beet and bean texture (purple pizza!!) over the dough, leaving space at the edges for the crust. Add your chopped veggies, and sprinkle with garlic salt and pepper. Stick it in the oven for 20 to 25 minutes. The crust won't change color but you can stab it with a knife to check and make sure it's cooked all the way through. It's never taken more than 25 minutes for me. Enjoy! 
Source of recipe: I used a pizza dough recipe I've been using for years (no idea where it came from, it's been memorized!), and made up the rest 

Preparation Time:  
45 minutes, Cooking time: 25 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
25 minutes 
Servings:  
1 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Pizza 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
Be the first to add a comment. 

Log in or register to post comments 


START RECIPE


CHUCKS BLACK BEAN PIZZA 
 
View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
19 oz. can black beans 
1 med. onion, diced 
1/2 each of red and yellow bell pepper,cut bite-size 
7 oz. whole kernel corn 
1/4 teaspoon cumin 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon basil 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon cilantro 
10 oz. can RO*TEL diced tomatoes & green chilies, drained 

What you do:  
1. reserve 2 Tbs. black beans, mash the rest 
2. blend the various spices into the mashed black beans 
3. spread the mashed black beans on the pizza she'll of your choice 
4. scatter the remaining topping ingredients over the black beans, including the two reserved Tbs. black beans 
5. place in the oven for 15 to 20 minutes, or recommended time for shell. 

Preparation Time:  
12 mins 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
6 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Pizza 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 5 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Lik 


START RECIPE


FLAMMKUCHEN (A GERMAN PIZZA) 
 
View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 (8 ounce) package smoked tofu, finely cubed 
oil, for frying 
1/2 cup vegan yogurt 
1/2 cup vegan cream 
1 teaspoon herbs de provence 
1/2 teaspoon salt, or to taste 
black pepper, to taste 
1 onion, thinly sliced 
1 pizza dough 

What you do:  
1. Preheat oven to 475°F. Fry smoked tofu in pan with the oil. Meanwhile, mix together the yogurt, cream, herbs, salt, and pepper in a bowl. 
2. Stretch out the pizza dough into 1 or 2 circles or rectangles and place on a pizza stone or baking paper lined baking sheet. Spread the yogurt and cream mixture on the dough, and then top with the onion and tofu. 
3. Bake until the dough is browned and the topping is bubbly. Let cool for a few minutes before slicing and enjoying!
Source of recipe: My friend came up with this recipe when trying to create a vegan flammkuchen, which is usually made with cream or quark and ham. She gave me permission to post the recipe here. 

Preparation Time:  
~20 minutes, Cooking time: ~10 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
~10 minutes 
Servings:  
1 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Pizza 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE


SUPER EASY ENGLISH MUFFIN PIZZAS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
8 tablespoons pasta sauce, divided 
4 tablespoons vegan mozzarella cheese, divided (I use Daiya) 
2 tablespoons vegan parmesan, divided 
2 English muffins, halved 

What you do:  
1. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Put 2 tablespoons pasta sauce on each piece of English muffin. 
2. Top with 1/2 tablespoon parmesan on each piece of English muffin and then 1 tablespoon cheese. 
3. Bake for 10-12 minutes until the cheese is golden brown. 
Source of recipe: I wrote the recipe. For more information, please see my blog here: http://veganmiss.blogspot.com/2011/06/english-muffin-pizzas.html 

Preparation Time:  
5 minutes, Cooking time: 10-12 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
10-12 minutes 
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Pizza 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE


YEASTLESS PIZZA CRUST 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
2 cups flour (adjust water if using wheat) 
1-1 1/2 teaspoons salt 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
2/3 cup water 
1/4 cup olive oil 
rosemary, to taste, optional 

What you do:  
1. Combine all ingredients. 
2. Knead by hand until it becomes a dough and doesn't stick to the sides of the bowl. 
3. Cover until you're ready to use it. 
Source of recipe: I wrote this recipe while I was too lazy to go to the store just to pick up yeast, and I wanted thin crust anyway. 

Preparation Time:  
2 min., Cooking time: 0 min 
Cooking Time:  
0 min 
Servings:  
1 
Recipe Category:  
Pizza Dough 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 12 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Liked 
 
harry.coomp234 


START RECIPE


PASTA WITH GARLIC BUTTER SAUCE & VEGGIES 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
6 cloves garlic, chopped 
1 cup vegan margarine 
1 cup olive oil 
1 yellow squash, chopped or sliced 
1 zucchini, chopped or sliced 
1 medium onion, chopped or sliced 
1 small green pepper, chopped or sliced 
1 small red pepper, chopped or sliced 
1/3 cup chopped mushrooms 
sun-dried tomatoes, to taste, chopped 
1/2 teaspoon dried basil 
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 
1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper 
pinch garlic powder 
pinch onion powder 
linguine (or what ever pasta you want), amount to preference 

What you do:  
1. Garlic Butter Sauce: Simmer garlic in margarine and olive oil for 5 minutes. 
2. Veggies: Heat olive oil in a pan. Add squash, zucchini, onion, green pepper, red pepper, mushrooms, sun-dried tomatoes, basil, oregano, crushed red pepper, garlic powder, and onion powder. Cook vegetables have softened. 
3. Cook pasta.
4. Poured just the liquid from the garlic butter sauce onto pasta and spoon the garlic pieces in with the veggie mix. I would suggest making the sauce first so it has time to get garlicky . It was so good as left overs!! 
Source of recipe: I like to play in the kitchen... just made it up one night. 

Preparation Time:  
15 minutes, Cooking time: 45 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
45 minutes 
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Linguini 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 1 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Liked 


START RECIPE

QUICK SCALLION SEITAN SAUTE OVER SOBA NOODLES 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 package of soba noodles (whatever flavor you prefer) - about 8 oz. 
1 bunch of scallions 
5-6 fresh large button mushrooms (use more if they're small) 
10 cloves of garlic, or more if you prefer. 
1 cup seitan, chopped 
1 tablespoon miso (or whatever size dollop you usually use) 
1/4-1/2 cup water to saute 

What you do:  
Cut up scallions into 1/2 inch pieces, using as much of the crispy tops as you can. Mince the garlic, or press (if your press actually works, mine never has). Slice the mushrooms into thinish slices. Cut up the seitan. In a medium fry pan, cook all the ingredients together in the water, adding more as you need it. Cook the soba according to directions at the same time (you won't need very much water for it to cook... just enough to cover). When its cooked to your liking, turn off heat, and serve over drained (and rinsed) soba noodles. Try and leave the seitan/scallion mixture saucy. The more gooey it is, the more sauce to mix in with the soba noodles. It took me 1/2 hour to get it out of the fridge and into my stomach, if not less. 

Preparation Time:  
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Soba Noodles 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 2 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Lik 


START RECIPE


COUSCOUS SUPREME 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1/2 cup onions chopped 
2 cloves of garlic chopped 
1 small sweet red pepper chopped 
3 tablespoons sun-dried tomatoes, with oil chopped 
3 cups fresh spinach rinsed well and dried 
1 cup uncooked couscous 
water for couscous (check package) 
2 sprays olive oil cooking spray 
1 tablespoon kosher salt 
fresh ground pepper to taste 

What you do:  
Prepare the couscous according to package directions and set aside. 
Sauté the garlic, onion and red pepper in a pan coated with the olive oil spray until softened. Sprinkle with 1/2 the kosher salt. 
Add the sun-dried tomatoes and mix well to combine. 
Add the spinach. When it is wilted add, the couscous, fresh ground pepper remaining salt and mix well. 
Serving size ½ cup. 
yum! 

Preparation Time:  
20 min 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
8 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Pasta 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 1 commentsView by:Most RecentMost Like 


START RECIPE


GARLIC BROCCOLI PENNE 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 1/2 cups multigrain penne pasta 
2 cups broccoli florets 
8 cloves garlic, crushed 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
1/2 teaspoon sea salt 
1/4 cup fresh parsley, finely chopped 

What you do:  
1. Prepare penne according to package directions and drain. Meanwhile, steam broccoli until just tender. 
2. In a large frying pan, saute garlic in olive oil until fragrant, remove from heat. Stir in pepper flakes and salt. 
3. Add penne and broccoli, stirring to coat with garlic mixture. Transfer to serving dishes and sprinkle with parsley. Serve immediately. 
I sometimes substitute asparagus, cut in thirds for the broccoli. 

Preparation Time:  
15 min 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Penne 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 8 commentsView by:Most RecentMost L 


START RECIPE

FETTUCINI WITH CHANTARELLE AND OLIVE SAUCE 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
5 oz uncooked fettucini pasta 
5 oz chantarelle mushrooms 
10 black olives, chopped 
1 garlic clove, chopped 
1 tablespoon margarine 
1/4 cup soymilk OR vegan sour cream 
parsley 
salt, pepper 

What you do:  
Bring water to boil and start cooking your pasta according to directions. Meanwhile wash and tear (don't cut) mushrooms in smaller pieces. 
In a skillet heat margarine and add garlic. After about 30 seconds add mushrooms and spices and fry them until they start to release their juices. If the liquid evaporates, the mushrooms will be rubbery. So fry them about 3 minutes, then add soymilk or vegan sour cream and chopped olives. 
Your pasta should be done by now. Drain it and add to the sauce, mix in and heat for a minute or so. Serve and garnish with chopped parsley. 

Preparation Time:  
15 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Fettucini 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE


ARTICHOKE PIE 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 prepared pie crust 
3 tablespoons olive oil, divided 
1/2 cup onion, chopped 
2 to 3 cloves garlic, minced 
4 egg replacers, prepared (I use Ener-G) 
1 (9 ounce) package frozen artichoke hearts, thawed and coarsely chopped 
2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley 
1 teaspoon dried basil 
1/4 cup grated vegan parmesan + more for top 
1/4 nondairy milk (I use soy) 
dash hot sauce (we use Frank's Red Hot) 
salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste 
1 tomato, thinly sliced, optional 

What you do:  
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place pie crust in pie pan, and prick the top in a few places. Loosely line the pan and crust with foil. Fill the foil with dry beans or lentils as a weight. This will keep the crust from puffing up. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes. Carefully remove foil and beans. 
2. Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a skillet. Add the onion and saute over a medium heat until translucent. Add garlic and continue to saute until onion is golden. 
3. In a bowl, combine egg replacer, onion mixture and all remaining ingredients, except the remaining olive oil and tomato. Fill pre-baked crust with the mixture. You may want to garnish the top with tomato slices. 
4. Sprinkle with a bit more vegan parmesan and drizzle remaining olive oil over the top. Bake 25 to 30 minutes or until the pie is set and golden on top. Let the cooked pie rest a few minutes before cutting to serve. Serve at room temperature or slightly warm.' 

Preparation Time:  
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Dinner Pies 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE

SHEPARDS PIE - BASIC, TRADITIONAL, NO WEIRD INGREDIENTS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
olive oil, as needed 
1 (12 ounce) package vegan ground beef (I use Yves Ground Round) 
2 large carrots, grated 
1 medium onion, chopped 
1 1/2 teaspoons rosemary 
1 tablespoon + 1 1/2 teaspoons vegan Worcestershire sauce 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt 
1 cup frozen corn (I use peaches and cream style corn) 
7 potatoes, boiled and mashed 

What you do:  
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Cook ground round with onion and grated carrot in olive oil about 5 minutes over medium heat. 
2. Add salt, rosemary and Worcestershire and mix well. 
3. Put mixture in casserole dish and top with corn and then potatoes. Bake about 30 minutes. 
Variations: Add garlic to mashed potatoes and sprinkle extra rosemary on top. 

Preparation Time:  
1 hour 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
5 
Recipe Category:  
Shepherds Pies 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE

LENTIL SHEPHERD PIE 
 
View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
4 medium potatoes, chopped 
olive oil, as needed 
1 medium sized yellow onion, chopped 
1/2 cup celery, sliced 
2 garlic cloves, chopped 
2 cups cooked lentils 
8 ounces tomato sauce 
2 tablespoons al yeast 
basil, to taste 
oregano, to taste 
parsley, to taste 

What you do:  
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Boil potatoes until tender. Saute onion, celery, and garlic in a little olive oil. 
2. Add lentils and tomato sauce and cook 15 minutes. Mash potatoes. Pour lentil mixture into a baking pan and cover with mashed potatoes. 
3. Sprinkle al yeast on top of potatoes. Top with spices. Delicious!  

Preparation Time:  
45 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
6 
Recipe Category:  
Shepherds Pies 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE


SWEET APPLE SNACK WITH CHOCOLATE 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
1 large or medium gala apple (these are best, but use any kind) 
1 cup of chocolate chips (obviously vegan kind) 
1 cup of roasted peanuts or whatever kind of nut prefered. 

What you do:  
Melt the chocolate chips for about 40 sec. Dont heat till the chips are all melted, because then it would burn. Stir till smooth. 
Place the washe'd but uncut apple on a plate. Pour the chocolate on the apple, then sprinkle the peanuts on top. 
Pop into the freezer for about 5-7 minutes, or howe'ver long it takes to firm up the chocolate. Make sure to not freeze the food though. 
In about 15 min. you have a delicious vegan snack! Enjoy! 

Preparation Time:  
15 min 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Fruit Snacks 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE


TWISTED CUMIN STICKS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
3 puff pastry sheets (8x4) 
2 tablespoon cumin seeds 
1 teaspoon salt 
some water 

What you do:  
Thaw the puff pastry sheets for 15 minutes. Meanwhile heat the oven to 370F.Now roll sheets to make them a bit wider. Sprinkle with cumin and salt evenly and cut into 1 strips broadways. Take one strip, hold one end steady and twist the other one to make a splice. 
Put on parchment paper and bake about 20 minutes until golden brown.It's a big hit with beer! 
Source of recipe: I was inspired by my favourite snacks in gradeschool. 

Preparation Time:  
8 minutes, Cooking time: 20 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
20 minutes 
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Snacks 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE

HONEY ROASTED CHICK PEAS (GARBANZO BEANS) 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
1 can Garbanzo Beans 

1/2 tbsp olive oil 

1 tbsp agave syrup 

1 tsp cinnamon (to taste) 

1/2 tsp nutmeg (to taste) 

1/2 tsp sea salt (to taste) 

What you do:  
1) Preheat oven to 350 F 

2) rinse can of garbanzo beans and lay on towel until fairly dry 

3) put garbanzo beans on a cookie sheet covered in aluminum foil and bake for about 35-40 minutes or until they're crispy (can't poke a fork through) 

4) mix garbanzo beans in oil, agave, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt until thoroughly coated 

5) can bake for another 10 minutes to caremelize or just eat as is :) 

Preparation Time:  
15 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
50 minutes 
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Bean Snacks 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 
View all 2 commentsView by:Most RecentM 


START RECIPE


SPICY PECANS 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
2 cups pecans 
2 tablespoons vegan butter 
1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 
1 1/4 teaspoons cayenne pepper 
2 tablespoons sugar 
1 teaspoon salt 

What you do:  
-preheat oven to 300 degrees-put pecans in a bowl-melt vegan butter, then add cumin and cayenne pepper-pour over pecans in bowl, mix well-add vegan sugar and salt, mix well-put pecans onto ungreased cookie sheet, spreading evenly-cook for +/- 20 minutes. Stir 2 or 3 times-serve warm or room temperature 

Preparation Time:  
20 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
3 
Recipe Category:  
Nut Snacks 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE


TACO FLAVORED SOYNUTS 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
2-2 1/2 cup Roasted Soybeans* (nuts) 
1 package vegan taco seasoning 
1 tablespoon salt (optional) 
vegetable oil or pam 

What you do:  
Put the roasted soybeans (nuts) in a bowl, spray with Pam or sprinkle with oil, stir so that oil is evenly coated with beans, then simply throw in the taco mix, stir, then after the beans are throughly coated, while stirring, sprinkle on the salt so that it's evenly distributed. 
Also, you can add cayenne pepper, black pepper, or cumin for a bit more spice or hotter snack. 
* Please see the How To Make Soynuts if you don't want to buy the nuts themselves, it's much cheaper to do it yourself, but takes longer.* 

Preparation Time:  
15 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
4-6 
Recipe Category:  
Nut Snacks 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE

LEFTOVER RICE RISOTTO 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
1 cup rice 
2 1/2 cups water 
1-2 Tablespoons oil 
1/2 cup peas 
1/2 large onion or small onion 
2 teaspoons dried basil 
salt and pepper to taste 

What you do:  
This recipe can be done using leftover rice or you can make it from scratch. Use a rice cooker or a saucepan. (skip this step if you have leftover rice) Boil 2 cups water and add 1 cup rice for 30 minutes or until water is gone. Then heat oil in frying pan and add onion. Fry until translucent. Add basil and salt and pepper. Add the rice to this and add water until it becomes more creamy, only about five minutes or so. Then voila! There you have it. 

Preparation Time:  
15 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Risotto 
SO HOW'D IT GO? 


START RECIPE

Curried Tomato Tortellini Soup Recipe 
I installed the Dr. Greger's Daily Dozen app on my phone last year, and it was a real eye opener for a few reasons. The app is actually just a simple checklist of ingredients to incorporate in your daily diet - ideally, every day. Beans, berries, spices, nuts, greens, etc. It's actually not simple. The thing that struck me immediately is the way you need to make every meal (and snack) count if you want to check all the boxes. I found that I needed to have more of a plan than my usual free-style approach, as well as an evolved arsenal of go-to recipes. So! The first thing I started doing was incorporating meals that were delicious, satisfying, one-bowl box-checkers, like this soup. It's a fortifying lentil and tomato-based stew, dotted with plump, tender dumplings, spiked with a range of spices, and boosted with plenty of spinach. It's so delicious, and simple, week-night friendly, and great for leftovers. Also, no shame in using frozen spinach, here. It cuts the already minimal prep time here down to near nothing. Enjoy! 


Curried Tomato Tortellini Soup 


There are a bunch of other whole food plant-based box checker recipes here as well, and throughout the archives. 

Curried Tomato Tortellini Soup 


Curried Tomato Tortellini Soup 

BROWSE MORE: 
PASTA RECIPES 
LENTIL RECIPES 
SPINACH RECIPES 
Curried Tomato Tortellini Soup 
For a vegan version, source vegan tortellini. Or if you have trouble finding that, substitute a vegan ravioli! 

4 big handfuls spinach, chopped (or frozen equiv) 
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 
1 medium yellow onion, diced 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
2 1/2 teaspoons curry powder 
3/4 teaspoon sweet (or smoked) paprika 
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 
3/4 teaspoon red chile flakes 
1 28-ounce can whole tomatoes, with liquid 
3/4 cup dried red lentils, rinsed 
4 cups water 
1 teaspoon fine grain sea salt, plus more to taste 
8 ounces / 1/2 pound fresh tortellini 

to serve: a bit of grated cheese, lemon (optional) 

If you're using frozen spinach, set it on the counter to thaw a bit. In the meantime, heat the olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Stir in the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes or so, until the onion has softened a bit. Stir in the garlic, wait a minute, then add the curry powder, paprika, turmeric, and chile flakes, and stir well. Break up the tomatoes with your hands as you add them to the pot along with the tomato liquid, stir in the lentils, and the water. Cover and allow to cook for 15 minutes or so, until the lentils have cooked through. Stir in the salt, and then the tortellini. Cover and cook for another 3-5 minutes, or per package instructions - until tender and cooked through. Stir in the spinach bring back to a simmer, and serve with a dusting of cheese and a squeeze of lemon juice. If you need to thin out with a bit more water, do so, and re-season. Enjoy! 

Serves 6-8. 

PREP TIME: 5 MIN - COOK TIME: 25 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
JANUARY 11, 2018 
BROWSE MORE: 
PASTA RECIPES 
LENTIL RECIPES 
SPINACH RECIPES 


START RECIPE


Creamy Four Ingredient Chili Mac (Instant Pot / Conventional) 
Chili mac is a thing. And I suspect it's a thing for a few good reasons. Namely, it's a family-friendly dinner solution, something nearly everyone can get behind. Chili + macaroni, what's not to like? I decided to a take a stab at it last week, in part because I was working on this Slow Cooker Black Bean Chili with Kahlua, and I had to go a few rounds to get it just right. So much leftover chili. So much. This chili mac combines four ingredients: your favorite chili, a beer (or broth), elbow pasta, and a splash of cashew, coconut milk, or other nut milk. It's as healthful as the chili you use. The last thing I'll say before jumping into the recipe is this, I know of no other dinner that takes less effort than the Instant Pot version of this. It's literally for nights when calling in take-out takes too long, and is too much effort. Seriously. 


Creamy Four Ingredient Chili Mac 


Pile on toppings to boost the chili mac ally, and to flair it out in general. I mean, treat it like a taco bar, or a chili bar - anything you would on those things is fair game here. Also, if you don't have leftover chili on hand - a good canned chili will absolutely work here. I'll put some related thoughts in the head notes. 

Creamy Four Ingredient Chili Mac 

BROWSE MORE: 
BEAN RECIPES 
INSTANT POT RECIPES 
Creamy Four Ingredient Chili Mac 
You can use a homemade chili, or if you're in a time pinch, grab something like Amy's low-sodium spicy chili (you'll need two cans) - you can always adjust your seasoning to taste with more salt, etc. To keep this gluten-free, use a GF pasta. I like to add a bit of creaminess here with a good splash of homemade cashew milk, but if you don't have that on hand, coconut milk is perfect as well. 

3 1/2 cups of favorite chili (or two 14-ounce cans) 
1 12-ounce beer, or equivalent amount of broth 
1/2 cup / 4 ounces water 
2 cups of dried elbow pasta 
a generous splash of cashew or coconut milk 

to serve, any/all of the following: scallions, salted yogurt (regular on non-dairy), cilantro, red onions, chopped olives 

Combine the chili, beer, water, and pasta in the Instant Pot. Close the pot, and secure the lid. SEAL the valve. Select PRESSURE COOK (or MANUAL) and calculate your cooking time. To do this, refer to your pasta package, the time will be half of the shortest recommended cooking time, rounded down to nearest minute. For example my pasta package recommended 8 - 10 minutes. Take the smaller number (8), cut in half (4), and round down to nearest whole number (if necessary). SET/ADJUST TIME - in my case, to 4 minutes. When finished, carefully QUICK RELEASE pressure by shifting the valve to VENTING. Gently shake or tap the pressure cooker, and then carefully open away from you. Stir in cashew milk. Taste and adjust seasoning, serve topped with lots of scallions, cilantro, red onions, etc. 

Serves 4-6. 

To make this on a conventional stovetop: Bring the chili, beer, and water to a simmer in one medium pot. Boil the pasta separately in salted water, drain, and stir into the chili. Add the cashew milk, season to taste, and serve with toppings. 

For reference, this is the Instant Pot I used for this recipe: Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1 
PREP TIME: 5 MIN - COOK TIME: 10 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
JANUARY 4, 2018 
BROWSE MORE: 
BEAN RECIPES 
INSTANT POT RECIPES 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Indian-spiced Simmer Sauce 
I'm slipping this incredibly fragrant and feisty Indian-spiced simmer sauce in here this morning in preparation for a recipe I'm going to post tomorrow (a Chickpea Cauliflower Korma). This tomato-based, ginger-slammed, garam masala-boosted simmer sauce is a riff on Coco Morante's version in The Essential Instant Pot Cookbook, and I suspect it will become a staple sauce for many of you. The recipe makes about six cups of sauce - perfect for using some, refrigerating some, freezing some. And no worries if you don't have an Instant Pot, I suspect a stovetop, or even a slow cooker version of it would be equally wonderful. I use it as the base of the korma, but I've also used it this week on a cauliflower pizza crust, along with a sprinkling of chickpeas, and a bit of paneer for Indian-spiced pizzas (quick lunch), and I'm going to use it on a garlicky, whole wheat crust tonight for dinner. It's nice as a sandwich spread, a dipping sauce for broiled broccoli, or for chana masala. Generally speaking, it's just flat out delicious, and you'll have no trouble thinking of clever ways to use it up. If you make some some today, I promise you won't regret having it on hand to make quick work of tomorrow's recipe. Consider it a homework assignment! :) 


Instant Pot Indian-spiced Simmer Sauce 


I made a few s to Coco's recipe. I used fire-roasted tomatoes because I thought it'd give the sauce some nice depth, and it's what I had on hand. Fantastic. Also, I slashed the pressure release time way down, opting for ten minutes of natural pressure release, because the extra 15 minutes seemed like too long for me to wait for something that smelled as good as this did! Enjoy! 
BROWSE MORE: 
TOMATO RECIPES 
TURMERIC RECIPES 
INSTANT POT RECIPES 
Instant Pot Indian-spiced Simmer Sauce 
Use it as the base of this Instant Pot Chickpea Cauliflower Korma. For a creamy version of the sauce, add a generous splash of cashew or coconut milk just before serving. I've been using fire-roasted tomatoes, no regrets. If you can handle spicy, dial the cayenne up to 1 teaspoon. 

2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 
3 large onions, finely diced 
3 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1-inch knob fresh ginger, peeled and grated 
3/4 teaspoon fine grain sea salt, plus more to taste 
1 tablespoon ground coriander 
1 tablespoon ground cumin 
3/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1 tablespoon sweet paprika 
1 tablespoon garam masala 
1 28-ounce can whole tomatoes and their liquid (fire-roasted optional) 
1 cup water 


Press the SAUTE setting on the Instant Pot and heat the oil. Add the onions, garlic, ginger, and salt, and saute until the onions have softened, and are just beginning to take on some color, about 10 minutes. 

Stir in the coriander, cumin, cayenne, turmeric, paprika, and garam masala. Wait a minute, and add the tomatoes and their liquid, breaking up and crushing the tomatoes with your hands as you add them to the pot. Stir in the water. 

Secure the lid, set the pressure release valve to SEALING. Press the CANCEL button, and then MANUAL for 15 minutes at high pressure. Let the pressure NATURAL RELEASE for ten minutes, then carefully QUICK RELEASE. The sauce can be used immediately, refrigerated for a few days, or frozen. 

Adapted from Coco Morante's The Essential Instant Pot Cookbook. You can also find her at her popular Facebook Instant Pot Recipe group! 

To make this on a conventional stovetop: combine the ingredients in the same order as above, and instead of pressure cooking, allow the sauce to simmer on low heat for as long as you can stand, at least 20-30 minutes. You can use the sauce right away, refrigerate it for up to a few days, or freeze it. 

For reference, this is the Instant Pot I used for this recipe: Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1 

PREP TIME: 5 MIN - COOK TIME: 25 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
DECEMBER 22, 2017 
BROWSE MORE: 
TOMATO RECIPES 
TURMERIC RECIPES 
INSTANT POT RECIPES 


START RECIPE

Golden-crusted Sesame Seeded Tofu Recipe 
In the April 1998 issue of Martha Stewart Living magazine there was a recipe for Sesame Asparagus and Tofu. I ripped it out, cooked it a hundred times in the twenty years since, and still have the clipping. My technique has evolved a bit, and I like to use the seeded tofu component on (and in) all sort of things - grain bowls, wraps, or to top a plate of grilled vegetables. But, it's also perfect paired simply with boiled (or grilled!) asparagus or broccoli, or served over blanched green beans, as pictured here. A smear of favorite chile oil, or a shower of sliced scallions seals the deal. 


Golden-crusted Sesame Seeded Tofu 


A couple of tips! Be sure to use extra-firm tofu. Also, play around a bit. I call for sesame seeds here, but like to add hemp seeds to the mix on occasion as well. 

Golden-crusted Sesame Seeded Tofu 

Golden-crusted Sesame Seeded Tofu 


BROWSE MORE: 
TOFU RECIPES 
SESAME RECIPES 
DINNER IDEAS 
Golden-crusted Sesame Seeded Tofu
12 ounces extra-firm tofu, drained and pat dry 
2 tablespoon soy sauce or coconut aminos 
4 tablespoons sesame seeds 
1/2 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 

Pat the tofu dry, and slice into 1/2-inch by 1-inch batons. Gently toss the tofu with the soy sauce, and allow to sit for a couple of minutes. Pour the seeds onto a plate. Pick up a tofu baton, dip one side into the seeds, and transfer to a another plate. Repeat with all the tofu batons. 

This is one of the few cases where I prefer to use a non-stick pan. Alternately, a very well-seasoned cast iron pan will work. Heat the oil over medium-high heat, and arrange the tofu, seeded side down, in the pan. Cook until golden on the bottoms, 4-5 minutes. Brown the remaining sides, and remove from skillet. Serve as is, or as pictured (over flash-boiled green beans), to top off a rice bowl, or over whatever roasted vegetables you might have going! 

Serves 4. 
PREP TIME: 5 MIN - COOK TIME: 10 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
DECEMBER 21, 2017 
BROWSE MORE: 
TOFU RECIPES 
SESAME RECIPES 
DINNER IDEAS 


START RECIPE

Instant Pot Mushroom Stroganoff with Vodka 
If you have an Instant Pot, please make this. Please. Pasta fans especially, this one is for you. As many of you know, within the Instant Pot community, mushroom stroganoff is quite popular, and you see many versions of it highlighted. Some are over-the-top decadent, others are quite healthy and hearty. This is my take, trying to land squarely in the later camp. My rogue move? Infuse a bit of vodka with crushed caraway seeds. Use it to spike your mushroom base as it cooks. So, a bit like penne alla vodka, but the mushroom stroganoff version. You can use whatever pasta you like (whole-grain, gluten free, chickpea, rice, etc.), I use creamy nut milk in place of actual cream, and a splash of olive oil to kick things off to start, in place of slabs of butter. You won't miss any of it. This version is vegan, vegetarian, cozy, comforting, simple, and adaptable. 


Instant Pot Mushroom Stroganoff with Vodka 


Here's a quick video where you can see how this comes together. There are also more videos here if you're interested: 


Serving suggestions: I'm going to argue that you need to counter all of this brown with a good amount of green. I enjoy this with a sizable green salad, or stir some chopped kale directly into the stroganoff, as it completes cooking. I make note of the specifics down below. 

Instant Pot Mushroom Stroganoff with Vodka 


Pasta selection: One of the great things about this recipe is that you can use whatever pasta you like, and you can experiment with favorite shapes. I've had success with penne, and rotini, but you can absolutely use whatever you (or your family) really likes. I often reach for one of the legume/bean based pastas for weeknight pastas, and play around with more traditional (and homemade wheat noodles) on the weekends. Mix it up some, this recipe is perfect for it. 

Instant Pot Mushroom Stroganoff with Vodka 
BROWSE MORE: 
MUSHROOM RECIPES 
PASTA RECIPES 
INSTANT POT RECIPES 
Instant Pot Mushroom Stroganoff with Vodka 
If your mushrooms look dirty or dusty, wipe them with a damp cloth or paper towel. I used chickpea pasta here, and it works great! (Banza). If vodka is inconvenient, substitute a craft beer (bourbon stout was delicious), or white wine. 

1 teaspoon caraway seeds, crushed  
1/3 cup vodka 
1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 
1 medium yellow onion, chopped 
3 garlic cloves, peeled and chopped 
1 pound brown mushrooms, stemmed, chopped 1/2-inch 
2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 tablespoon flour 
2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
3/4 teaspoon fine grain sea salt, plus more to taste 
1/4 - 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground pepper, or to taste 
1 3/4 cup mushroom broth (or vegetable broth)  
2 cups dried pasta (see headnotes) 
1/2 cup homemade cashew cream*, or almond milk 

to serve: lots of dill, or chives and some toasted almonds 

In a small bowl combine the caraway seeds and the vodka, set aside. Sauté the olive oil and onions in the Instant Pot on the highest SAUTE setting for a minute or two. Stir in the garlic and mushrooms, and cook for a few minutes more, until everything softens up a bit. Stir in the tomato paste, and then the flour, and cook, stirring gently, but constantly for another few minutes, to toast the flour a bit. Add the vodka-caraway mixture, mustard, salt, pepper, broth, and pasta. Give one last stir to distribute the pasta evenly, and press CANCEL to stop the SAUTE. 

Close the pot, and secure the lid. SEAL the valve. Select PRESSURE COOK (or MANUAL) and calculate your cooking time. To do this, refer to your pasta package, the time will be half of the shortest recommended cooking time, rounded down to nearest minute. For example my pasta package recommended 7 - 9 minutes. Take the smaller number (7), cut in half (3.5), round down to nearest whole number (3). SET/ADJUST TIME - in my case, to 3 minutes. When finished, carefully QUICK RELEASE pressure by shifting the valve to VENTING. Gently shake or tap the pressure cooker, and then carefully open away from you. Stir in cashew milk. Taste and adjust seasoning, serve topped with lots of dill and almonds. 

Serves 4. 
*Puree 1 cup of cashews, and 2 cups of water in a high-speed blender for a full minute or two. If you don't have a high-speed blender, please soak the cashews in water for at least an hour before blending for smoothest consistency. 

Stovetop Version: Follow the instructions, up to the point of adding the pasta, cooking in a large skillet (instead of the Instant Pot). Cook the pasta separately in a pot of salted water, and stir it into the mushroom mixture. Finish with the cashew milk, and toppings. 

Kale-boosted Variation: Stir a few big handfuls of well-chopped kale into the mushroom stroganoff just after it finishes cooking. Let it collapse a bit over a couple of minutes, and stir in the cashew cream before serving. 

For reference, this is the Instant Pot I used for this recipe: Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1 

PREP TIME: 15 MIN - COOK TIME: 15 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
DECEMBER 16, 2017 
BROWSE MORE: 
MUSHROOM RECIPES 
PASTA RECIPES 
INSTANT POT RECIPES 


START RECIPE

Last Minute Red Lasagna Recipe 
Making lasagna doesn't have to be an all-day affair. This is a true weeknight lasagna. No pre-cooking sauces, no pre-cooking noodles. You, literally, stir the first five ingredients together into a vibrant crushed tomato sauce, and start layering. Also, it isn't a cheese bomb. I try to keep things light here. It's the rare lasagna that is arguably healthful enough to make once a week, and still feel like it is working in your favor. Very light on the cheese front, yet still hitting the lasagna mark. Served alongside a good salad? It's nice payoff, with minimal effort. 


Last Minute Red Lasagna Recipe 


A couple of related tips. If you come across fresh pasta sheets, stock up. You can freeze them, and then you always have them on hand. Alternately, if fresh pasta is hard to find where you are, stock up on no-boil (whole wheat, if possible) lasagna sheets. These are the ones I come across where I live. It's hard to make the mental leap that they will work out. It seems impossible, because they're like dense, stale crackers, and...no boil!? But I'm always pleasantly surprised. 

Last Minute Red Lasagna Recipe 


Last thing! Sometimes I spice the red tomato sauce with curry powder and a big squeeze of fresh orange juice for a fun twist - I'll note that variation in the recipe below. I'll also note a variation that omits dairy altogether. If you use egg-free pasta, it's a good vegan version. 

BROWSE MORE: 
TOMATO RECIPES 
PASTA RECIPES 
LENTIL RECIPES 
Last Minute Red Lasagna 
I've used all of the following noodles at one point or another with this recipe: fresh egg pasta, fresh spinach pasta, fresh whole wheat pasta, and dried, no-boil whole wheat pasta (something like this). All work great! Also, I often make a vegan version where I skip the mozzarella altogether. Instead, thin out some tahini with warm water, season with salt, and garlic paste - use that as a creamy finishing drizzle. If you like a cheesier lasagna, you can certainly add some ricotta in alternating layers! This is super easy to adapt. 

28 ounce can of crushed tomatoes 
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 
1/2 teaspoon fine grain salt 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
lemon zest 

12 ounces fresh pasta sheets, cut into lasagna strips OR 
9 ounces dried whole wheat no-boil lasagna sheets 

1 cup cooked red lentils or cannellini beans 
1/4 cup chopped olives (optional) 
4 ounces mozzarella cheese, torn 


Preheat the oven to 400F with a rack in top third. To assemble the lasagna combine the tomatoes, olive oil, salt, garlic, and red pepper flakes in a bowl and give a good stir. Spoon 3/4 cup of the sauce into the bottom of a 8 x 12-inch (or larger) oven-proof baking dish. Sprinkle generously with lemon zest, and cover with a layer of pasta, giving the pasta strips a quick dunk in cold water before using - (please see note below if using no-boil noodles*). Spoon another thin layer of tomato sauce, sprinkle with a few tablespoons of the lentils, the olives (if using), and cover with another layer of pasta. Repeat with more layers ending with a generous amount of tomato sauce on top. Finish with the mozzarella cheese on top (or see headnotes for vegan version). Bake for thirty minutes, or until the cheese gets nicely golden. 

Serves 6. 

*If using no-boil noodles, there's no need to dunk in water before assembling. Also, please cover the lasagna with foil and bake until pasta is tender - 30-35 minutes. 

** Variation: Stir 1 1/2 teaspoons of your favorite curry powder and juice of 1/2 an orange into the tomato sauce.  
PREP TIME: 10 MIN - COOK TIME: 30 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
DECEMBER 3, 2017 
BROWSE MORE: 
TOMATO RECIPES 
PASTA RECIPES 
LENTIL RECIPES 


START RECIPE

Smashed Sweet Potato Tacos Recipe 
This is a quick write-up of the color fantastic tacos we had for lunch recently. So simple, so good! Homemade tortillas (worth the effort) get slathered with a layer of roasted, smashed sweet potatoes which are topped with a sprinkling of black beans. From there it's all about the extra toppings like sliced avocado, quick pickled red onions and/or serrano chiles, and a bit of cheese - I used Bulgarian feta, but cotija would be good, or skip it altogether if you're vegan. A squeeze of lime, and some sliced scallions are the finishing touch! 


Smashed Sweet Potato Taco Recipe 
Smashed Sweet Potato Taco Recipe 

Smashed Sweet Potato Taco Recipe 

Smashed Sweet Potato Taco Recipe 

Smashed Sweet Potato Tacos 
Look for orange or purple-fleshed sweet potatoes. They're packed with anti-oxidants, and phytonutrients, and are extra good for you! 

2-3 sweet potatoes, scrubbed 
sea salt 
1/4 - 1/3 cup of almond, cashew, or rice milk 

10-12 tortillas (homemade tortillas are a breeze to make), warmed 

1 14-ounce can black beans, or equivalent cooked from dried 
Avocado, sliced 
Quick pickled red onions* and or serranos** 
Scallions, thinly sliced 
Crumbled feta or cotija cheese, optional 


Preheat your oven to 400F / 200C degrees. Prick the sweet potatoes all over with a fork, and sprinkle generously with sea salt. Bake the potatoes until tender throughout. This can take an hour for large potatoes. Less for smaller spuds. Remove from the oven, and allow to cool long enough to handle safely, cut in half, and scoop the flesh into a bowl. Smash with a generous splash of milk, roughly 1/4 cup, and season with salt to taste. 

To assemble each taco, slather each tortilla with a generous dollop of smashed sweet potato, top with a spoonful of black beans, and then some sliced avocado. Add some onions* and chiles**, and finish with a sprinkling of scallions, and a bit of cheese. 

Serves 4.  

*Quick Pickled Red Onions: Combine the juice of 1 lime, 1 small chopped red onion, 1 teaspoon sugar, and 1/4 teaspoon salt in a small bowl. Set aside for 10 minutes. 

**Serrano Chile Vinegar & Chiles: Combine 8 serrano chiles, sliced 1/8th-inch thick with 2 cups white vinegar in a Mason jar, and refrigerate. Use the chiles w/in a week or two. You can use the vinegar for weeks after that in dressings, etc. 

PREP TIME: 10 MIN - COOK TIME: 60 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
SEPTEMBER 23, 2017 


START RECIPE


A Spicy, Boosted Nut Butter Recipe 
Around here we call this fire butter, but that's probably being overly dramatic. It's an invigorating mix of ground ginger, cinnamon, and cayenne pepper blended with walnuts and vanilla extract into a homemade walnut butter. If I have maca powder or mesquite flour on hand, I add those too. This became a fast and feisty house favorite, and a way to boost an everyday favorite ally with a host of spices. When you blend your own nut butters, it's hard to resist adding things! This version is perfect spread on toast, dabbed on banana coins or apple wedges, or thinned out into a spring roll dipping sauce. 


A Spicy Boosted Nut Butter Recipe 


I like to use walnuts here, but feel free to use almonds, or a blend of walnuts with another favorite nut. The texture is nice, and I haven't had a problem with separation. 

A Spicy Boosted Nut Butter Recipe 

One last note, I don't salt this, although it definitely needs a bit of salt. I wait until I spread it across something, and then sprinkle a bit of salt at that point, and it seems to be plenty. 

A Spicy Boosted Nut Butter Recipe 

A Spicy Boosted Nut Butter 
An example of a boosted nut butter. I like to make a sizable batch while I'm at it, from a full pound of nuts. Walnuts are my favorite, but almonds or hazelnuts are delicious too. Bonus points for toasting, but not necessary. 

1 pound shelled walnuts, almonds, or hazelnuts 
1 tablespoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
2 teaspoons ground ginger 
1 tablespoon vanilla extract 

2 teaspoons red maca (optional) 
1 tablespoon mesquite flour (optional) 


Combine walnuts, cinnamon, cayenne, ginger, and vanilla in a food processor or blender, also add the maca and mesquite if you have it. Pulse, process for a minute or two, or until the nuts crumble and then work themselves into a paste. Store in a jar in a dark place. 

Makes 2 cups. 

PREP TIME: 5 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
SEPTEMBER 19, 2017 


START RECIPE

A Big, Crunchy, Better Breakfast Cereal 
I'm going to share with you a bigger, better, crunchier breakfast cereal. Some of you aren't going to be interested in this concept at all, and that's cool (I think a taco recipe is up next). For some of you, this is going to be a game changer. I've been making my own dry cereal breakfast blends in recent months. But, here's where things got interesting. I started making it in increasingly larger, and larger batches. Now I cherry-pick boxes of favorite cereals, dump entire boxes into the most massive bowl I can find, and add quick oats, oat bran, ground flax, and freeze dried fruit. Give everything a really good toss, and transfer to two XXXL glass Weck jars. The big-batch thing is the magic. Especially if you're at all lazy, but still want a great breakfast. I'm including the recipe for what I think of as my master cereal recipe, but use it as a jumping off point, and don't get hung up on whether you can track down the exact cereals I use. 


A Big, Crunchy, Better Breakfast Cereal 


So much to say about this. My cereals of choice are oat flakes, shredded wheat, and some sort of dense nugget cereal - but a mix of sugar-free / whole grain / high-fiber cereals is what you're going for. Said another way, a mix of textures, and nutrient diversity. Because the components are dry, it means weeks of quick breakfasts, and you can easily scoop some into baggies for simple travel breakfasts. 

A Big, Crunchy, Better Breakfast Cereal 


This is the berry version. There are times I do a tropical version, swapping out the berries for freeze-dried bananas, pineapple, and apples. You can also add fresh fruit when you add the milk, and anything else you have on hand. 

A Big, Crunchy, Better Breakfast Cereal 

A Big, Crunchy, Better Breakfast Cereal 

A Big, Crunchy, Better Breakfast Cereal 
HS: Just a heads up, this isn't a sponsored post, I'm calling out name brands to illustrate the exact blend I use, but you can substitute using the same general concept! 

1 box Kashi wheat biscuits (16 ounce) 
1 box Nature's Path Multi-grain Oat Flake Cereal 
1 box Kashi 7-grain nuggets, or Ezekiels 
2 1/2 cups quick-cooking rolled oats 
1 1/2 cups oat bran 
4 cups freeze-dried berries (mix of raspberries, blue berries, strawberries) 
1/2 cup ground flax seeds 

to serve: fresh berries fruit or sliced banana, chia, hemp seeds & your milk of choice (I prefer almond milk here or a blend of cashew and almond milk) 

Combine everything in your largest bowl, toss well, and transfer to air-tight containers (two Weck 2.5 L glass jars are perfect). 

Makes cereal for a week or more. 

PREP TIME: 5 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
SEPTEMBER 16, 2017 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE

New-fashioned Oatmeal Pancakes 
Let's talk pancakes. A few of you saw a pancake batter in a refrigerator shot I posted here, and requested the recipe. They're a current favorite for reasons I'll list off below, but let me describe them to you first. We're talking about oatmeal pancakes, but I think of them as oatmeal porridge pancakes because of the texture you experience as you cut through their golden tops into the crumb. Instead of a traditional crumb, you've got what ends up being a leavened porridge. If you prefer a feather-light stack, these aren't going to be your jam. These are hearty, substantial, and absolutely delicious. They're also made with 100% whole grain flour, oats, and ground flax. I always get questions about buttermilk substitutions, so I make them with a simple almond buttermilk here. They're pancakes that will work for vegans, and those avoiding dairy as well. I'll add a couple of technical notes down below, related to ingredients and favorite add-ins, but I typically make them to order on a Saturday or Sunday, and then save any extra batter to use in the next day or two. They're like 90% as good with leftover batter - which, in my book, is just fine on a Monday morning :). 


Oatmeal Pancakes 


A couple notes - you see cornstarch or brown rice flour here to counter-balance some of the moist density you get when cooking or baking with oatmeal or whole grain flours. You can certainly leave it out - but I'm always a bit sorry when I do. Toppings? I tend to skip the syrup with here, but love to dust them with cinnamon sugar. It gives you that crunch and texture before a tender interior (sort of churro-like). Or, if we're getting extra specific, sometimes I'll make a big oatmeal pancake and cut it into 4 or 5 long strips. And then when I want to take a bite, I'll roll one of the strips (cinnamon roll-style), and dunk the end in a bit of sugar. You also cant go wrong with a side of smashed berries. 

Oatmeal Pancakes 


I mix all sorts of ingredients into the batter from day-to-day, but it's hard to beat toasted walnuts and blueberries (frozen is a-ok). Grind up a few rose petals with some sugar and use that to sprinkle - there is something magic about the blueberries and rose. Enjoy! 

Oatmeal Pancakes 
New-fashioned Oatmeal Pancakes 
2 1/2 tablespoons ground flax seeds 
2 1/4 cups almond milk 
1 1/2 teaspoons (apple cider) vinegar 
1 1/2 cups / 6 ounces whole wheat pastry flour 
1/3 cup / 1 1/2 ounces quick-cooking oatmeal 
3 tablespoons cornstarch or rice flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
3 tablespoons natural cane sugar / fine coconut sugar 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

optional add-ins (recommended!): 1/3 cup toasted, chopped walnuts & 1/3 cup blueberries (frozen ok) 

to serve (any/all of the following): bit of cinnamon sugar, or smashed berrries 

Combine the ground flax seeds with 1/2 cup of hot water in a small bowl, set aside until it thickens, 5 - 10 minutes. 

In a medium bowl combine the almond milk with vinegar, set aside. In a large bowl, combine the flour, oatmeal, cornstarch, baking powder, sugar, and salt. Add the almond milk mixture to the dry ingredients, and then the flax mixture. Stir all the ingredients until they are just combined. Don't worry if the batter is a bit lumpy, you don't want to over mix. 

Heat a well-seasoned cast iron to medium heat. If a drop of water dropped onto the pan starts to dance, you're in the ballpark. Rub the pan with a hint of oil, if needed, and pour about 1/3 of a cup of batter into the skillet. Wait until the pancake bottom is deep golden in color, then flip with a spatula and cook the other side until golden and cooked through. Repeat with the remaining batter. Serve with a sprinkling of sugar, or smashed berries. 

Makes about 12 large pancakes, or dozens of silver-dollars - enough to feed a small crowd. 
PREP TIME: 10 MIN - COOK TIME: 5 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
AUGUST 23, 2017 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


Zucchini Ricotta Cheesecake Recipe 
This has been a favorite recipe ever since I initially posted it in 2008. I threw together a zucchini-flecked ricotta cheesecake after a summer visit to the farmers' market. The green and yellow squash skins along with a nice amount of chopped dill visually pepper the interior of this savory cake. I used just enough egg to hold things together, creating a simple batter made primarily of ricotta cheese but also flavored with a bit of garlic, shallots, lemon zest, and a few straggler ingredients I found lounging around the kitchen seeking higher purpose. Lighter and less egg-y than a quiche it takes a while to bake, but minimal time ahead of that. Along with a few sides, it would be a welcome addition to any picnic bet, camping trip, or brunch. 


SUBSCRIBE TO VIDEOS 


Ricotta Cheesecake Recipe 

Ricotta Cheesecake Recipe 

Ricotta Cheesecake Recipe 

Ricotta Cheesecake Recipe 

Ricotta Cheesecake Recipe 

Keep in mind this is a ricotta based cheesecake - not one based on cream cheese. The texture is going to be different (and delicious) in its own right . 

BROWSE MORE: 
ZUCCHINI RECIPES 
RICOTTA RECIPES 
BREAKFAST / BRUNCH RECIPES 
Zucchini Ricotta Cheesecake 
To shred the zucchini use a box grater - most micro planes are too fine, you want shredded zucchini, not mush. Feel free to play around with the add-in ingredients - for example, use whatever chopped herbs you like. I had dill on hand, and I like how it tastes with summer squash, so dill it was. I suspect anything from chopped olives, sun-dried tomatoes, or chives, to spices, chopped spinach, or corn would work here. Also, when I have the time and inclination I'll drain the ricotta through cheesecloth to get even more moisture out of the cake, but to be honest, most times I won't bother. Lastly, I use a springform pan here, but you could use an equivalent baking dish or deep tart pan as well. 

2 cups zucchini, unpeeled & grated 
1 teaspoon fine grain sea salt 
2 1/2 cups ricotta cheese 
1/2 cup freshly shredded Parmesan cheese 
2 shallots, chopped 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
1/4 cup fresh dill, chopped 
zest of one lemon 
2 large eggs, well beaten 
1/3 cup goat cheese, crumbled 
drizzle of olive oil 


Preheat oven to 325F degrees, racks the middle. Butter/oil a 7-inch springform pan. 

In a strainer, toss the shredded zucchini with the salt and let sit for ten minutes. Now aggressively squeeze and press out as much moisture as you can. Then squeeze some more. Set aside. 

In the meantime, combine the ricotta cheese, Parmesan cheese, shallots, garlic, dill and lemon zest in a medium bowl. Stir in the eggs and continue mixing until well combined. Now stir in the shredded zucchini. Fill the springform pan with the ricotta mixture and place on a baking sheet. Place in the oven and bake for sixty minutes. If there is any moisture left on top of the cake at this point, carefully use a bit of paper towel to dab it off. Now sprinkle with the goat cheese and return to the oven for another 20 -30 minutes or until the goat cheese is melted and the cake barely jiggles in the center (it will set up more as it cools). 

At this point, if the cake is baked and set, but the top isn't quite golden, I'll zap it with the broiler (just about a minute) to get a bit more color on top. Remove from the oven and let cool five minutes, then release the cake from its pan. Cool completely, serve at room temperature drizzled with a bit of olive oil and a few sprigs of dill. 

Serves 8.  
PREP TIME: 15 MIN - COOK TIME: 80 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
JUNE 23, 2017 
BROWSE MORE: 
ZUCCHINI RECIPES 
RICOTTA RECIPES 
BREAKFAST / BRUNCH RECIPES 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


Coconut Baked Oatmeal Recipe 
Baked oatmeal is one of my signature breakfast and brunch moves, for all the typical reasons. Make ahead, check. Adaptable, check. Many five year olds love it, and most forty year olds too. Check, check. There are versions of it in my last two books, and I'm constantly riffing on the general concept based on what is in season, and what I have on hand. This version is extra special - banana, coconut, vanilla, coconut milk, and some winter citrus, all baked into fragrant, golden-topped magic. The concept couldn't be simpler. In fact, I suspect many of you have everything you need on hand right now. Butter your baking dish, layer of fruit, top with dry ingredients, finish with wet ingredients. Bake. The secret wink I included in this version is a final drizzle of warm coconut milk accented with a splash of rose water. 


SUBSCRIBE TO VIDEOS 

How to make Baked Oatmeal Video 
 
Coconut Baked Oatmeal Recipe 

Coconut Baked Oatmeal Recipe 

Coconut Baked Oatmeal 
Note: Be sure to buy gluten-free oats if you are avoiding gluten. 

3 tablespoons unsalted butter or coconut oil, melted and cooled slightly 

2 bananas, sliced into 1/2-inch pieces 
1 grapefruit, segments 

2 cups rolled oats 
1/2 cup shredded coconut 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon fine-grain salt 

1/3 cup maple syrup (or coconut nectar) 
1 cup full-fat coconut milk 
1 cup water 
1 large egg 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 

3 (blood) oranges, peeled, and sliced into cross-sections 

To serve: coconut milk with a splash of rose water (to taste) 


Preheat the oven to 375F / 190C degrees. Use 1 tablespoon of the butter or coconut oil across the inside of a square 8-inch (or equivalent) baking dish. Spread a single layer of bananas across the bottom of the buttered baking dish, then sprinkle the grapefruit across as well. 

In a bowl, combine the oats, coconut, the baking powder, and salt. In another bowl, whisk together the maple syrup, coconut milk, water, egg, the remaining butter or oil, and the vanilla. Sprinkle the dry mixture over the bananas in the baking dish. Drizzle the coconut milk mixture over the oats. Arrange the oranges across the top. 

Bake for 35 to 45 minutes, until the top is golden and the oats are set. Let cool for a few minutes. Drizzle with the rose coconut milk (optional). 

Serves 6 - 12. 

PREP TIME: 10 MIN - COOK TIME: 35 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
FEBRUARY 21, 2017 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
OUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


A Glow-promoting, Luminizing Breakfast Beauty Bowl
One of the very best ways to work toward beautiful, luminous, glowing skin is through eating well and mindful hydration. Your skin is often a direct reflection of the internal eco-system of your body, and, being nice to your inside is one of the best ways to positively impact your outside. It's the foundation you need to support good skin, bright eyes, strong hair, thick eyelashes, healthy nails, and on and on. Eating a seasonal, plant-centric, whole foods diet is a great place to start, but I thought I'd take today to highlight a few skin-friendly superstars in this Luminizing Breakfast Beauty Bowl - they're extra beneficial and skin-supportive, and quite easy to work into your day to day.


The base of this beauty bowl is a simple mixed berry smoothie boosted with some chia. The berries are compact, anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory powerhouses, rich in cleansing fiber and collagen-boosting Vitamin C. I use mixed berries (blackberry, blueberry, strawberry) for a bit of diversity (and because they're quite easy to come by in most freezer sections) but if you really want to step up your Vitamin C game, you might trade in acai for the berries now and then. Switch it up - diversity in your is also important.

Luminizing Breakfast Beauty Bowl

Use whatever plain, unsweetened, yogurt you prefer - coconut yogurt, Greek yogurt, nut milk yogurt, or sheep or goat milk yogurt - the probiotics here are a big help in balancing out your inner digestion and overall internal ecosystem. Use whatever yogurt works for you. Chia helps with tissue repair and skin regeneration. That's the foundation here.



BROWSE ALL VIDEOS

Beyond that, you can boost your beauty bowl with as few or many other ingredients as you have on hand. Pick at least a handful. Here (pictured) you see digestion-friendly pineapple wedges, pomegranate seeds (thought to help reduce UV photo damage), Vitamin C-rich citrus (blood oranges and mandarin segments), a sprinkling of nuts and granola, some crushed dehydrated raspberries, and a sprinkling of bee pollen.

Luminizing Breakfast Beauty Bowl

Luminizing Breakfast Beauty Bowl

I love serving this sort of thing as a DIY breakfast option. You can make a big batch of smoothie (pourable straight from the pitcher), and then offer up a buffet of toppings. Everyone can customize their own bowl to their liking :)!

A Glow-promoting, Luminizing Breakfast Beauty Bowl
If you don't have a few of the topping ingredients, no big deal. Start with the smoothie base and build from there, focusing on what is seasonal, fresh and available in your area.

1 cup frozen organic mixed berries (blueberries, strawberries, blackberries)

1 teaspoons chia seeds

1/2 cup preferred unsweetened yogurt or nut milk, plus more for topping

sweetener to taste: coconut nectar, liquid stevia, maple syrup

Toppings (any all): pineapple wedges, citrus segments, pomegranate seeds (and juice), a handful of granola or toasted oats, dehydrated berries (whole & crushed), bee pollen, cacao nibs, toasted coconut, chopped nuts

Blend the berries, chia seeds, yogurt or nut milk, until smooth. Sweeten to your liking, and transfer to a serving bowl (or divide between two serving bowls). Place a few pineapple wedges and citrus segments in each bowl and give a quick toss. Sprinkle with pomegranate seeds, granola, toasted coconut, and any of the other toppings you like and have on hand.

Serves 1-2.

PREP TIME: 10 MIN

PRINT RECIPE
JANUARY 18, 2017
Welcome!
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi

your email please
  
Heidi Swanson
FOLLOW ME:
INSTAGRAM
YOUTUBE
FACEBOOK


START RECIPE


Chia Breakfast Bowl Recipe 
I know many of you are always on the lookout for quick, healthy breakfast ideas, and I have a solid for you. This chia breakfast bowl has been in high rotation here for the past couple of weeks. It's summery and bright, and if you can get on board with chia seeds in general, it's a nice way to start the day. Chia can be a funny ingredient to experiment with, and quite honestly, I'm not always a fan of chia preparations. That said, when I've found my groove with them, they're great - high in fiber, omega-3s, an ancient energy seed used by the Aztecs, Mayans, and Incans. I make a version of this bowl before a yoga class, or before a morning paddling / swimming in Lake Tahoe, and it really keeps me going, feeling strong. It goes like this - soak the chia seeds in your favorite nut milk, top with smashed berries, fresh passionfruit juice, pepitas, and big flakes of toasted coconut. A bit of bee pollen adds a boost and some pretty. 


Chia Breakfast Bowl Recipe 
Chia Breakfast Bowl Recipe 

BROWSE MORE: 
CHIA SEED RECIPES 
BERRY RECIPES 
BREAKFAST / BRUNCH RECIPES 
Chia Breakfast Bowl 
If you like a thicker bowl add more chia seeds, if you like a thinner consistency go for less. Or if you've never tried them before, start with 1 tablespoon and work up if you like. Also, I used a (toasted) almond-coconut milk blend here, but any favorite nut milk will do. I sweetened mine with coconut nectar (love), but if you can use a bit of whatever natural sweetener you keep on hand. 

1-3 tablespoons chia seeds 
2/3 cup almond-coconut milk (or other nut milk) 

pinch of good salt 

coconut nectar, maple syrup, stevia, or honey, to taste 

top with: toasted coconut flakes, seasonal fruit (I used passion fruit & blackberries), something with a bit of crunch (I used pumpkin seeds) - walnuts, sunflower seeds, granola, etc. A bit of bee pollen if you use it (and aren't allergic). 


Combine the chia seeds with the almond milk and stir well. Allow to sit for at least 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until the chia seeds completely bloom and soften. You can also do this step a night ahead, but I like the flavor better when the chia isn't allowed to sit for that long. Just before serving, sweeten to taste with preferred sweetener, and then top with toasted coconut flakes, crushed seasonal fruit, and anything else you like. 

Makes one bowl. Double or triple the recipe based on the number of people you are serving. 


PREP TIME: 15 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
DECEMBER 22, 2016 
BROWSE MORE: 
CHIA SEED RECIPES 
BERRY RECIPES 
BREAKFAST / BRUNCH RECIPES 


START RECIPE


Cinnamon Buns Recipe 
I make a version of these cinnamon buns nearly every year for Christmas. I think the first time I made them was back in 2010, inspired by the version in Lotta Jansdotter's book. They're beauties. I thought I'd do a bit of an update to that initial post today, where I list off some of the s I've made over the years, in addition to some insights I've had. The base recipe is for a version of Lotta's beautiful, homemade, hot from the oven, loaded with sugar and spice, golden, buttery, classic cinnamon buns. One of the great things about them, is that you can prepare them ahead of time, and freeze the pre-baked rolls. The night before you're ready to bake them, leave them to thaw, covered, on your counter, and bake them in the morning. I've done versions with whole grain flours, different spice blends, and boozed-up icings - which I'll note in the recipe and headnotes. There are some great insights in the comments as well. 


Cinnamon Buns Recipe 

To make cinnamon buns you start by making a buttery yeast dough. I know some of you shy away from all recipes yeasty, but these really are fun to make. They take some time, because you need to let the dough rest and rise at various points, but most of that time isn't active. Once you get the hang of things, you can play around with all sorts of different fillings in future batches. If you want to explore something beyond cinnamon sugar, the filling can be anything from jam, a sweet compound butter, a flavored cream cheese filling...you get the idea. 

Cinnamon Buns Recipe 

So, in short, making cinnamon buns goes like this: Mix the dough. Let it rise. Roll it out. Put down the filling. Roll. Slice. (Freeze here, if you're going that route). Another rise. Bake. Lotta sprinkles her cinnamon buns with pearl sugar before baking, which gives them a nice crunchy top, but I know a lot of people like a thick slathering of icing - to the horror of some Swedes, I might add :)... I served these w/ raw sugar on top and icing on the side, and used the icing from these hermit cookies. Might I suggest a splash of bourbon as well? You can actually flavor the icing any number of ways... 

Cinnamon Buns RecipeCinnamon Buns Recipe 

Happiest holidays and Merry Christmas to all of you. xo -h! 

BROWSE MORE: 
CINNAMON RECIPES 
BREAKFAST / BRUNCH RECIPES 
Cinnamon Buns 
I imagine these would be extra special if you used this Moroccan Baharat-Cinnamon Rose Blend in place of the cinnamon. And a bit of lemon zest grated onto the filling just before rolling (or sprinkled into the bottom of the baking dish) might be nice. If you plan on freezing any of the pre-baked cinnamon rolls, here's what you want to do. Freeze them for an hour on a baking sheet or until they'll hold their shape, then drop them into a freezer bag, squeeze out any air and seal well. The night before you want rolls for brunch, thaw them overnight on your counter top, covered with a clean dish towel, and bake per the instructions below any time the following morning. 

*I've done delicious versions using equal parts all-purpose flour and rye flour, or one third part whole-wheat flour to two-thirds all-purpose flour. 

4 teaspoons active dry yeast 
1 cup warm whole milk (105F to 115F / 40C to 46C) 
3/4 cup / 100g muscovado or brown sugar  
1 large egg, beaten 
1/2 cup / 125g unsalted butter, barely melted 
1 tablespoon ground cardamom 
1 teaspoon fine grain sea salt 
4 cups / 600g all-purpose flour* 

Filling: 

1/2 cup / 60g muscovado or brown sugar 
2 tablespoons cinnamon 
1/2 cup / 125g unsalted butter, softened 

Glaze: 

1 egg beaten with 1 tablespoon of water 

large grain raw sugar or pearl sugar for sprinkling OR you can make an icing to spread on the rolls after baking (recipe below, not pictured)* 


Sprinkle the yeast over the warm milk in a large bowl. Add a pinch of the sugar and stir to dissolve the yeast. Let stand for a few minutes or until foamy. 

Add the remaining sugar, the egg, melted butter, and cardamom. Stir until smooth. Stir the salt into the flour, then gradually add the flour to the bowl, a bit at a time, incorporating the flour after each addition. Transfer the dough to a floured counter top and knead for 8-10 minutes, or until the dough is smooth and elastic. Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled bowl, turn it to coat with oil, and cover with a kitchen towel or equivalent. Let the dough rise in a sunny or warm place until doubled, about an hour. 

Cut the dough in half on a floured counter top and form each piece into a ball. One at a time, roll each piece into a rectangle 12 inches/30cm and 1/2 inch/12mm thick. See the photos up above if this is confusing. 

For the filling, start by combining the cinnamon and sugar in a small bowl. Spread half of the butter evenly over one rectangle of the dough. Sprinkle half of the sugar mixture evenly across the butter. Roll the dough up tightly lengthwise, then turn it so that the seam side is down. Cut the roll into 12 equal slices, a serrated knife works best. You can bake these, cut-side up, on a parchment lined baking sheet, in cupcake liners, or in a buttered baking dish. I used a well-buttered standard pie dish. Unless you are using individual cupcake liners, you want to arrange the slices about 1/2-inch from each other on the baking sheet or in the baking dish. They rise and expand, and end up nice and snuggly in/on the pan. Repeat with the remaining rectangle of dough and filling. You can freeze any slices you aren't going to bake at this point. 

Cover the rolls you are going to bake with a dry towel and let rise in a sunny or warm spot until doubled, about an hour. The timing is pretty flexible here - you can go a few hours depending on what is convenient. 

Heat the oven to 400F/ 205C with a rack in the top third. Brush the buns with the egg wash and sprinkle with sugar if you like. Bake the buns until golden brown, roughly 15-18 minutes. Don't over bake, the buns will dry out = not as good. Remove from the oven and serve warm if possible, plain or with a slather of icing* on top of each bun. 

*Icing recipe: as I mention up above, this is the icing I also use for these hermit cookies. I like to spread a bit on each individual roll before serving or serving the icing on the side with a palette knife for individual spreading. Whisk 1 cup / 3.25 oz / 100g sifted powdered sugar, 4-5 tablespoons heavy cream, and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract or 2 tablespoons bourbon or brandy together in a small bowl. Let sit for a few minutes, then adjust with more sifted powdered sugar if you want a stiffer icing. I'm going to do a creme fraiche version of the icing on Christmas - trading out the heavy cream for creme fraiche. 

Adapted from the Cinnamon Bun recipe in Lotta Jansdotter's Handmade Living: A Fresh Take on Scandinavian Style by Lotta Jansdotter. 

PREP TIME: 150 MIN - COOK TIME: 20 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
DECEMBER 8, 2016 
BROWSE MORE: 
CINNAMON RECIPES 
BREAKFAST / BRUNCH RECIPES 


START RECIPE


Power Waffles Recipe 
Today's waffle recipe was inspired by a visit from two friends. About a week ago, we broke out the extra towels, pillows, and bedding for house guests. Emily and Birdie were coming to stay for a night or so. Two girls, their guitars, and a rental car making a springtime journey across the country to play music and sing in a handful of small clubs and venues. 


They came bearing a huge quart of beautiful maple syrup for us to enjoy. Not just any maple syrup mind you, this is pure maple syrup from Emily's family. They run the organic Spring Hills Farm in northeastern Pennsylvania. This is the best maple syrup I've ever tasted. It is a grade A medium amber pure maple syrup and has a bright, delicate, and buttery maple flavor - it is outrageously delicious. Night and day from what people typically buy at the local supermarket. Many popular brands of pancake syrup you find in the grocery store are actually made from corn syrup or cane sugar with just a small percentage of real maple syrup. 



A lot of times syrups are just too dark, too rich, and too sweet for me - not the case here. This one is delicious and light enough to eat straight from the spoon. It is complementary without being overpowering, which makes it easy to integrate into everyday cooking, snacking, and eating. It took me a few days to move past sampling it straight - this included dunking my finger into the mason jar, and licking the backs of syrup coated spoons. I've also been drizzling it on piping hot bowls of oatmeal in the morning, and on cups of homemade plain yogurt in the afternoon. Waffles and pancakes couldn't be far off, could they? 

I stumbled on a cryptic recipe for yeast-based waffles last week in the current issue of the Slow Food periodical and thought I would give it a shot. When I say cryptic, I'm not kidding. The recipe lacks punctuation, gets entirely cut off 3/4 of the way through, and requires conversion from the metric system. Outside of the metric issue, I think the rest must have been a printing problem or something. Regardless, it sounded good enough to give it a shot and I decided I would wing it a bit. 


The recipe comes from an article featuring the The Cafe at the Ross School Center for Well-being. Ross being a private school grades 5 through 12 in East Hampton New York. The waffles are yeast leavened and feature oats, buckwheat flour, and chopped, flavor-packed, crystallized ginger. These are not your standard white flour waffles....the oats and buckwheat make for a denser, heartier, more nutritious waffle. They also take longer to cook than a standard waffle, so they might not be the best choice for a waffle bar get-together. That being said, they are delicious, and packed with bursts of flavor - the scent of cinnamon will permeate your entire house. 

I'm rewriting the instructions in my own words. Be sure to serve these waffles lavished with lots of warm, pure maple syrup. In case you are curious, you can see the original version of the Power Waffle recipe here. 

Power Waffle Recipe 
1 1/2 cups non-fat milk (divided) 
3/4 cup crystallized ginger 
3 tablespoons sugar 
1/2 teaspoon fresh (compressed) yeast 
1 1/4 cups Sir Galahad all-purpose flour 
3/4 cup buckwheat flour 
150 g (5.3 ounces) rolled oats 
1 tablespoon cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
2 egg whites (heidi note: I ended up using 4) 
1/3 cup melted butter 


The night before, gently warm 1/2 cup of the milk and dissolve the yeast. Don't heat the milk too much or it will kill the yeast. Chop the ginger and steep it in a different 1/2 cup of hot milk, let it steep for ten minutes, so the milk becomes flavored. Combine the remaining 1/2 cup milk with the steeped ginger milk and the yeast milk. 

In a separate large bowl combine all the dry ingredients. Pour in the milk liquids and stir until combined. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, cover with plastic, and leave to rise on a counter overnight. 

The next morning, heat up your waffle iron. Melt the butter in a small saucepan. Whip the egg whites in a mixer (heidi note: I'm still not sure if they meant whip or whisk...the recipe doesn't say anything about whipping into peaks, and it doesn't say anything later about carefully folding in the whites, so this time I went on the assumption that they really meant for us to whisk the whites a bit - folding in whites might be interesting too though, and might lighten up the waffles a bit.) Using a mixer with paddle attachment (or by hand) stir in 3/4 of the butter. Mix until fully incorporated. Add the egg whites, and finish by stirring in the rest of the melted butter. 

Ladle waffle batter onto heated waffle maker, and cook until deep and golden brown. 

Makes about 6 average-sized waffles. 
PRINT RECIPE 
MAY 7, 2005 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


Sour Cream Waffles Recipe 
There are a handful of terribly neglected (and now dusty) appliances in my house: the bread machine circa 1995, the blender (now I opt for the handy immersion blender), the panini grill - and of course, the waffle maker. I secretly want a Belgium waffle iron with deep, golden pockets that cradle the warm butter and syrup - but since I rarely use the standard maker I've got, it is a bit hard to justify. But my quest for a new tasty waffle recipe started on Sunday when I went to a baby shower at my oh-so-crafty friend Whitney's house in Berkeley. Being the smart and practical host that she is - she had a make-your-own waffle bar set up for us. Scoop a cup of batter onto the waffle maker, close the lid, wait for the green light to tell you it is done, and then have your way with a vast assortment of toppings. I was thrilled. Strawberries, warm maple syrup, chunks of chocolate, fruit salad, whipped cream - you could top your piping hot waffle with whatever your fancy. 



In the other room Whitney put a big stack of bright, crisp, white onesies alongside a huge assortment of stencils and fabric paints so everyone could paint a onesie for the baby-to-be to wear when he/she arrives (see above picture). 

I was inspired to dust off the waffle maker when I got home, and combed through a bunch of my books looking for an inspiring waffle recipe to have a go of. I was a bit stumped for a while - with all the cookbooks I have here you would think I would be awash in waffle recipes, but I actually didn't come across many at all in the first ten or so books I pulled. I sort of stepped back for a minute and ed myself who I thought would make a mean waffle. I immediately yanked my Art Smith book from the bookshelf. Bingo - he has not just one waffle recipe in his book, he's got three - and they all sound delicious. He gives us recipes for Sweet Potato-Pecan Waffles, Coconut Waffles with Mango-Strawberry Compote, and the one I picked, Sour Cream Waffles. 


These sour cream waffles are a breeze to make, and if you've got a bit of sour cream leftover from say....fajita or taco night - you probably have all the other ingredients right now in your refrigerator. These are delicious, light yet structured waffles that cook up golden brown with just the right amount of outside crunch (no one likes a soggy waffle). Be forewarned, this recipe is for all you butter lovers out there, and calls for a whole stick. So instead of eating a whole stack of them, enjoy one or two segments underneath a giant scoop of strawberries or fruit salad. Yum. 
Art Smith's Sour Cream Waffle Recipe 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter melted 
1 cup milk 
1/2 cup sour cream 
3 large eggs 
Maple syrup or jam, for serving 


Heat a waffle iron according to manufacturer's directions. Lightly oil the grids. Meanwhile whisk the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl to combine and make a well in the center. Whisk the melted butter, milk, sour cream, and eggs in a medium bowl until well combined and pour into the well. Whisk just until smooth: do not over mix. 

Spoon about 1/4 cup of the batter into the center of each quadrant of the waffle iron and close the iron. Cook until the waffle is golden brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Serve the waffles hot, with the syrup passed on the side. 

Makes twelve 4-inch waffles. 

From Back to the Table: The Reunion of Food and Family by Art Smith (Hyperion, 2001) - reprinted with permission. 

PRINT RECIPE 
MARCH 24, 2005 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


My Favorite Pancake Recipe 
We've all had blueberry pancakes with maple syrup, and pancakes with blueberry syrup, but what about a tall stack of golden butter-kissed pancakes with blueberry maple syrup? I'm going to go out on a limb and say these Whole-Grain Pancakes with Blueberry Maple Syrup are the best pancakes I've ever made, my favorite pancake recipe to date. The pancakes are fluffy and golden and light, and the blueberry syrup is delicious, fragrant and beautiful without being overly sweet. 


I've been playing around quite a lot recently with white whole wheat flour. It is the Trojan horse of whole-grain flours, because for finicky people who won't eat anything brown or good for them you can pass it off as white. It is made from a strain of hard white winter wheat berries (I remember reading somewhere that it is a naturally occurring albino strain?) and the nutritious bran and germ aren't processed out the way they are in all-purpose white flour. The white whole wheat flour makes for a tender crumb, and these pancakes are the perfect way to try something other than the old all-purpose flour. 

The whole blueberry maple syrup is perfectly delicious and great when fresh blueberries come into season. I imagine it would also be delicious on ice cream, as a tart filling...I suspect there are some cheesecake lovers out there, perfect for that too. Let me know what you think. 

This recipe was originally posted in late summer - as I'm reposting it from the archives it is now December and I'm imagining these pancakese would be delicious with cranberries swapped in for the blueberries in the original recipe. Or just get rid of the blueberry maple syrup all together and top with some of the ruby red cranberry jam from last week. Yum. 
My Favorite Pancake Recipe 
If you can't find white whole wheat flour, feel free to substitute unbleached all-purpose flour. 

1 (6-ounce) bet blueberries, rinsed 
1/4 cup natural granulated sugar (evaporated cane sugar) 
1/4 cup real-deal, PURE, maple syrup 
2 tablespoons water 

2 cups white whole wheat flour (or unbleached all-purpose flour) 
1 teaspoon aluminum-free baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/3 cup natural granulated sugar (evaporated cane sugar) 
1/2 teaspoon fine grain sea salt 
2 1/4 cups organic buttermilk 
2 large organic eggs, lightly beaten 
2 tablespoons butter, melted (melt in the pan skillet you are going to use) 

butter, to serve (and for pan) 


To make the blueberry maple syrup put 1/2 of the blueberries, the sugar, maple syrup, and water in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat. Heat and stir until the sugar dissolves and simmer for 5 or 6 minutes or until the blueberries begin to split. Remove from heat and press the blueberry mixture through a fine strainer into a bowl. Mash the fruit to get all the juiciness extracted. Throw out the solids. Stir the remaining blueberries into the warm syrup and set aside. 

To make the pancakes combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda, sugar, and salt in a large bowl. Add the buttermilk, eggs, and melted butter. Stir all the ingredients until they are just combined. Don't worry if the batter is a bit lumpy, you don't want to over mix. 

Heat your skillet, pan, or griddle to medium-hot and brush it with a bit of butter. Test for the right temperature. If a drop of water dropped onto the pan starts to dance, you are in the ballpark. Pour about 1/3 of a cup of batter into the skillet. Wait until the pancake bottom is deep golden in color, then flip with a spatula and cook the other side until golden and cooked through. Repeat with the remaining batter. 

Serve with a golden pat of butter and plenty of blueberries and syrup. 

Makes about 12 large pancakes, or dozens of silver-dollars - enough to feed a small crowd. 

PRINT RECIPE 
AUGUST 3, 2006 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


Instant Pot Herbed Chickpea Plov 
Plovs. I started cooking them last year pretty regularly, locking onto one in particular early in my exploration. It was the Green-herbed Plov with Chickpeas in the Samarkand cookbook by Caroline Eden and Eleanor Ford. It is the lone vegetarian plov they included in that book, because, as noted, it's hard to find a plov in Central Asia without meat as its central component. If you love robust one-pot rice dishes, and you own an Instant Pot, you're going to want to dig in here, this recipe is for you. 


If you've never experienced a plov, its heralded as the undisputed king of Uzbek cuisine, a steaming pilaf cooked in layers, served everywhere in Central Asia. Think of plovs as the perfect all-in-one-pot preparation, and this is the version you'll want to start with if you're vegetarian or vegan. It has rice, and chickpeas, fragrant spices, spinach, herbs, saffron, garlic, and olives. It's the epitome of family style - served on platters, for visitors, for celebrations, for holidays. 

Instant Pot Herbed Chickpea Plov 


In the beginning I was cooking my plovs in a big cast iron Dutch oven, but quickly moved on to a kamado-san rice cooker donabe. I won't do the donabe deep-dive here, but nailing a plov in a kamado-san donabe, consistently (keyword), is master class stuff. Which is why I thought this recipe would never make it onto the site, it was one for the personal collection :). To cook plovs in the donabe isn't for the faint of heart, and for every three times I nailed it, there was one time I really didn't. And then(!)....then I bought the Instant Pot, and decided to try my plov in that. Guess what? SO much more consistent, likely because there's no variation in temperature and heat from one attempt to the next in the IP. The results are great, and relatively predictable. So here we are - an Instant Pot Plov. Give it a go! It's great day after as well. 

Instant Pot Herbed Chickpea Plov 


Instant Pot Herbed Chickpea Plov 

For reference, this is the Instant Pot I used for this recipe: Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1 
BROWSE MORE: 
SPINACH RECIPES 
RICE RECIPES 
CHICKPEA RECIPES 
Instant Pot Herbed Chickpea Plov 
A couple of notes. First, when I say to layer, I mean like you would layer a taco dip or a lasagna. Spinach, note that I've tested with fresh and frozen spinach - both work great, and the frozen allows you to always have it on hand, pre-prepped and ready to go. 

3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 
2 medium yellow onions, thinly sliced 
1 teaspoon red chile flakes 
1 14-ounce can of chickpeas, drained, rinsed (or equivalent) 
3 garlic cloves, peeled and chopped 
1/3 cup black olives, chopped 
2 cups boiling water with 1/2 teaspoon salt added, divided 
6 ounces kale or spinach, chopped (frozen is ok) 
a couple handfuls chopped herbs (cilantro, dill, celery leaves) 
1 1/2 cups brown basmati rice, well rinsed 
a big pinch of saffron, (optional) 

to serve (some or all of the following): salted yogurt with saffron, toasted walnuts, chopped olives, herbs, lemon wedges 

Sauté the olive oil and onions in the Instant Pot on the highest SAUTE setting until softened and starting to brown just a bit, about 5 - 7 minutes. Stir in the chile flakes. Working quickly, scatter the chickpeas, garlic, and black olives on top of the onions in a layer, without stirring, and add 1/2 cup of the salted water. 

Layer the spinach and herbs over the chickpea layer, again, not stirring. Smooth the greens into a layer with the back of a spoon (if you're using fresh spinach, do this as it begins to collapse). Add the rice in an even layer, sprinkle with saffron, and add enough salted water to just cover the rice - ~1 1/2 cups. Press Cancel to stop the saute. 

PRESSURE cook for 25 minutes, and then allow to NATURALLY RELEASE for 15 minutes. Then you can carefully QUICK RELEASE PRESSURE. Gently shake or tap the pressure cooker, and then carefully open away from you. Serve toped with any/all of the suggested toppings. 

Serves 4-6. 

Inspired by the Green-herbed Plov with Chickpeas in Samarkand: Recipes & Stories from Central Asia & The Caucasus by Caroline Eden & Eleanor Ford. Kyle Books (2016) 

For reference, this is the Instant Pot I used for this recipe: Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1 
PREP TIME: 10 MIN - COOK TIME: 45 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
JANUARY 21, 2018 
BROWSE MORE: 
SPINACH RECIPES 
RICE RECIPES 
CHICKPEA RECIPES 


START RECIPE


Last Minute Everything Bagel Noodle Bowl 
One of my resolutions related to this site, post more of my last-minute, on-the-fly recipes. The really no-fuss meals I throw together in five minutes, the ones I usually write off as too simple to share. This is one that fits the bill. Noodles, tofu, and broccoli boiled in one pot, drained, tossed with splashes of olive oil and ponzu, plus a generous showering of everything bagel seasoning to finish it all off. It's so simple, satisfying, and the perfect lazy day one-bowl lunch or dinner. 


Last Minute Everything Bagel Noodle Bowl 

Last Minute Everything Bagel Noodle Bowl 

BROWSE MORE: 
SOBA RECIPES 
TOFU RECIPES 
BROCCOLI RECIPES 
Last Minute Everything Bagel Noodle Bowl 
8 ounces dried soba noodles 
1 medium head of broccoli, cut into florets 
12 ounces extra firm tofu, cut into small cubes 
2 - 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 
a big splash of ponzu sauce, to taste 
everything bagel seasoning (or mix of seeds)* 
peanuts 


You're going to cook everything in one pot, the trick is the order you add the ingredients. The noodles take the longest, start them first, then add the tofu and broccoli at the very end. Start by brining a large pot of water to a boil. Salt well and add the soba noodles, cook per package instructions, and about a minute before they're finished, add the broccoli and tofu to the pot. Finish cooking, and drain well. Transfer to a large bowl or serving platter, and toss with a 2-3 tablespoons of olive oil, add a nice splash of ponzu, to taste, and season with more salt if needed. Finish with a generous sprinkling of everything bagel seasoning, or seeds, and some peanuts. Enjoy! 

Serves 4. 

*To make everything bagel seasoning: combine white and black sesame seeds, dried minced garlic, dried minced onion, some poppy seeds, and a bit of flaky sea sea. 

PREP TIME: 5 MIN - COOK TIME: 7 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
JANUARY 18, 2018 
BROWSE MORE: 
SOBA RECIPES 
TOFU RECIPES 
BROCCOLI RECIPES 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


Shredded Jackfruit Burritos (Vegan) 
I suspect the most notable aspect of this burrito is the use of jackfruit. My guess is it might be an ingredient you're either completely onboard with, or not at all. Either way, mark my word, shredded jackfruit is a fascinating ingredient. People trying to reduce or eliminate meat from their diet tend to love it for its texture, which uncannily mimics pulled pork or shredded chicken. Out of the can, it has a flavor that is quite mild and neutral, making it a lot of fun to play with on the culinary front - blank slate and all. And because of that, my approach is usually to blast it with an assault of spices and flavor. Here you see it sautéed with lots of garlic and taco/chili seasoning to create a dynamic burrito filling that just about anyone can get behind. When shopping for jackfruit, I buy it canned, in water (easy to find it at places like Trader Joe's) - just drain, and rinse before using. 


Shredded Jackfruit Burritos (Vegan) 

Give this a try, and if you're into it, I'm happy to feature more jackfruit recipes in the future! 

Shredded Jackfruit Burritos (Vegan) 

Shredded Jackfruit Burritos (Vegan) 
I tend to stockpile jackfruit when at Trader Joes (not sponsored), it's in a green can, hard to miss. You want it in a neutral water / brine situation.I typically use water here, but let's say you were going to add mushrooms as a topping, you could use a mushroom broth. 
a 20-ounce can of green jackfruit (in brine or water) 
1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 
1 medium onion, chopped 
1/4 cup chopped garlic 
1 teaspoon smoked paprika 
1 1/2 teaspoons taco seasoning (or chili powder) 
1/2 cup water 
big squeeze of lemon or lime juice 
scant 1/2 teaspoon of salt, or to taste 

4 - 6 tortillas, preferably whole-grain 

Any / all of the following: black or pinto beans, brown rice, shredded cabbage, sliced avocado, a favorite salsa, cilantro, scallions or red onions 


I like to make the jackfruit ahead of time, it keeps for a few days in the refrigerator for quick, on-the-fly tacos, burritos, and tostadas. Drain, rinse, and slice jackfruit into thin, 1/4-inch thick strips, from core to edge. Use all the jackfruit, the core, shredded parts, and seeds. 

Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Stir in the onion and saute for a few minutes, until they soften a bit. Stir in the garlic, and then the paprika and taco seasoning. Quickly add the water, lemon juice, salt, and jackfruit. Cover and simmer for 5 - 10 minutes, until much (but not all) of the liquid is absorbed. Use a wooden spoon to smash the jackfruit, to get that shredded texture. 

To assemble the burritos: Arrange your fillings just off-center on an open-faced tortilla. Fold in the sides and roll. Resist overstuffing, or you won't be able to do my favorite part - make them golden-crusted in a skillet. To do this, add a tiny bit of olive oil to a large pan or skillet over medium heat. Brown the top and bottom of each burrito in the skillet. So good! 

Makes enough jackfruit for 6 burritos. 

PREP TIME: 10 MIN - COOK TIME: 20 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
JANUARY 13, 2018 


START RECIPE


Quick Shredded Tofu Stir-fry Recipe 
This is one of my favorite recipes from my last cookbook, Near & Far. It's a snappy little stir-fry, and it comes together in a flash. It's the perfect kind of recipe to kick off the new year. You get freshness from bright pea shoots (or other greens), substance from the tofu, and some crunch from the pepitas and sesame seeds. It's an easy crowd pleaser, and I often use the leftovers as a spring roll filling (perfect for on-the-go lunches). Rice paper or lettuce wraps do the job! 


Quick Shredded Tofu Stir-fry 

You'll need to use a box grater for this: finer Microplane graters will shred the tofu too thinly to maintain the right amount of structure. 

Quick Shredded Tofu Stir-fry 

BROWSE MORE: 
TOFU RECIPES 
VEGETARIAN RECIPES 
Quick Shredded Tofu Stir-fry 
This recipe is endlessly adaptable! Take the basic premise and run with it. Chopped broccoli florets make an easy alternative to the pea shoots, peanuts or cashews an alternative to the sesame seeds. To keep the recipe vegan substitute a bit of brown sugar or maple syrup for the honey, and use a non-dairy yogurt instead of crème fraiche. 

1 small Serrano pepper, seeded and minced 
1/4 teaspoon fine grain sea salt, plus more to taste 
1 tablespoon white wine vinegar 
1 teaspoon runny honey, brown sugar, or maple syrup 
4 tablespoons / 60 ml extra virgin olive oil 
1 tablespoon crème fraiche, sour cream, or non-dairy yogurt 
2 cups / 2 oz / 55 g pea shoots 
8 ounces / 225 g extra-firm tofu, shredded on a box grater 
1/2 cup / 2.5 oz / 70 g well-toasted pepitas 
3 tablespoons (black) sesame seeds 


Start by making the dressing: you'll want it ready when you start to cook. Whisk together the pepper, 1/4 teaspoon of salt, the vinegar, honey, and 3 tablespoons of the olive oil, until emulsified. Add the crème fraiche (or yogurt), and whisk again. Taste and adjust to your liking. Set aside. 

Just before serving, heat the remaining tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat. When hot, add the pea shoots, a pinch of salt, and sauté for just 5 seconds or so. The shoots will quickly begin to wilt. Immediately transfer them to a plate, and place the tofu in the hot skillet with most of the pepitas and sesame seeds and two-thirds of the dressing. Turn off the heat, and toss gently to distribute the ingredients without breaking down the tofu too much - you just want to warm the mixture a bit. Taste and stir in more salt if needed. Transfer to a serving platter and top with the pea shoots and remaining sesame seeds and pepitas. Serve the extra dressing on the side. 

Serves 4. 

Recipe from my book Near & Far: Recipes Inspired by Home and Travel (2015). 
PREP TIME: 5 MIN - COOK TIME: 5 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
JANUARY 2, 2018 
BROWSE MORE: 
TOFU RECIPES 
VEGETARIAN RECIPES 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


Slow Cooker Black Bean Chili with Kahlua 
This black bean chili is a little bit naughty, but mostly nice as we round the corner into the new year. Quite honestly, I'm not sure the world needs another chili recipe, but this one checks a number of boxes that are sometimes tricky to check. It's vegan. It's flavor-forward. It's hearty, and feisty, and easy to  (more heat, less heat, etc). It's perfect for a slow cooker, and it has a wild card ingredient - Kahlua. But don't worry, the alcohol cooks off, and the liquor just leaves a nice bass note of sweet coffee-ness. Not too much sweet, just a kiss, and I think it gets balanced out by the cumin and cayenne in most chili powders, and the smokiness of the chipotle. Slow cooker black bean chili for the weeknight win. I've also include notes for a stovetop version, and Instant Pot (pressure cooker) version, so everyone can come along. 


Slow Cooker Black Bean Chili with Kahlua 

I know, black bean chili is pretty much the Birkenstock of slow cooker staples, but I wanted to take a fresh look at it, and lock down a good go-to version with pay-off. Also, to write a recipe that doesn't have thirty ingredients, but tastes like it does. :)  

Shout out to my friend Chris at Bi-Rite Market, who always listens to me thinking out loud about what I'm working on. I was running through all the typical black bean chili wildcard ideas - pumpkin, orange juice, espresso, etc...We landed on Kahlua (before flirting with a whisky version)....and it turned out NICE! 

Slow Cooker Black Bean Chili with Kahlua 

Slow Cooker Black Bean Chili with Kahlua 

Also, here's a shot of the Breville Fast Slow Pro. It was the multi-cooker I originally purchased. Unfortunately, it was damaged during shipping, and I replaced it with the Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1. Then, Breville kindly sent me a new one to work with. Long way of saying, I've been testing, and experimenting with both now, and have a bit of a strengths/weaknesses chart going. I'm not going to do a product review at this point, just know, the recipes work in both. 

BROWSE MORE: 
BEAN RECIPES 
TOMATO RECIPES 
VEGAN RECIPES 
Slow Cooker Black Bean Chili with Kahlua 
The only active, time-intensive part of this recipe is chopping the aromatics (onions, garlic, etc.). You can do this a day before, and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, until you're ready to cook. If you don't have Kahlua (or other coffee liqueur), it's fine to substitute beer, broth, or even coffee. Use a favorite chili powder - I call for a range here, use more if you think you can handle it, less if you like a milder chili. 

2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil  
2 medium onions, diced 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
5 stalks of celery, diced 
2 medium carrots, diced 
2 chopped chipotle pepper in adobo sauce (1/4 c.) 
1 - 2 tablespoons chili powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons fine grain sea salt, or to taste 
1 pound of black beans, soaked 4-6 hours or overnight 
1 28-ounce can of whole tomatoes in juice 
3 1/2 cups water / broth 
1/3 cup Kahlua or other coffee liqueur 

to serve (some or all of the following): salted (non-dairy) yogurt with smashed garlic, herbs, scallions, hemp seeds, lime wedges, drizzle of olive oil, avocado 


Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the onion, sauté for 2-3 minutes. Stir in the garlic, celery, and carrots, and cook, stirring occasionally, until soft, about 7 minutes. Add the chipotle, chili powder, and salt. Stir until combined and cook for another minute or so. Transfer to a 6-quart (or larger) slow cooker. 

Add the beans, tomatoes, breaking them up with your hands as you add them, their liquid, the water, and Kahlua. Stir to combine, cover, and cook on the LOW setting until the beans are tender, 5- 6 hours. Stir occasionally, if convenient. Adjust seasoning, ladle into bowls, and top with any of the suggested toppings you like. 

Store leftover in the refrigerator for up to a few days, or freezer for a month or two. 

Serves 10+. 

Instant Pot Pressure Cooker method: If you don't have 5-6 hours for the slow cook, you can use the Instant Pot to pressure cook this chili. Use the SAUTE function, to start, and once you've made it to the point where you've added all the ingredients, press CANCEL. Close the pot, secure the lid, set the pressure release valve to SEALING. Press MANUAL for 15 minutes at high pressure (bump up to 25-30 if you think your beans might be old). When cooking is complete, carefully QUICK RELEASE. Gently shake or tap the pressure cooker, and THEN carefully open away from you. 

Conventional stovetop method: Bring everything to a simmer (after all the ingredients have been added). Cover, and cook, over the lowest heat (while still maintaining a low simmer), until the beans are tender. If you need to add more broth or water at any point, do so, and re-season. I think you could likely cook this in a Dutch oven in a 300F for a long stretch as well. 

For reference, this recipe was tested in this Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1, as well as this Breville Fast Slow Pro (Breville sent me one after I received a damaged one purchased through Amazon). It's great, because I can experiment with both now, and at some point I'll try to write a review/comparison. 
PREP TIME: 15 MIN - COOK TIME: 15 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
DECEMBER 31, 2017 
BROWSE MORE: 
BEAN RECIPES 
TOMATO RECIPES 
VEGAN RECIPES 


START RECIPE


Instant Pot Chickpea Cauliflower Korma 
Today's recipe is a fantastic mash-up of sorts. It's an Insta-friendly riff on the Chickpea Cauliflower Korma recipe in Jennifer Iserloh's The Healing Slow Cooker. I paired it with the high-impact Indian-spiced Simmer Sauce from Coco Morante's The Essential Instant Pot Cookbook. If you have a simmer sauce on hand, whether it's this aforementioned one, or a store-bought version you love, this couldn't come together more quickly. It's the perfect vehicle to get all sorts of goodness into your body in one, delicious sitting. 


Instant Pot Chickpea Cauliflower Korma 

I love this recipe because it's absolutely packed with power ingredients, including a nice range of fragrant spices. I like to think I get a lot of spice in my diet, but I think the real key is integrating spice blends into lots of meals. Not just a few times a week, but daily. For example, the simmer sauce has coriander, cayenne, cumin, turmeric, paprika, and whatever spices are in your garam masala blend. It's how you shift from single notes to a chord. 

Instant Pot Chickpea Cauliflower Korma 

No problem if you don't have an Instant Pot, a stovetop version is a breeze as well, and I'll include guidelines for that down below! Also, for reference, this is the Instant Pot I used for this recipe: Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1 

Instant Pot Chickpea Cauliflower Korma 

Side note - Another way to get a medley of spices and power-ingredients into your meals are pastes. That's part of the reason I love strong curry pastes like this one, or a boosted miso paste like this one. 

Lastly, if you have an Instant Pot, be sure to poke around this new section with all the instant pot recipes in one place. 

BROWSE MORE: 
CHICKPEA RECIPES 
TOMATO RECIPES 
CAULIFLOWER RECIPES 
Instant Pot Chickpea Cauliflower Korma 
You can certainly use chickpeas cooked from dried, use about 2 cups. To keep it vegan, 
use your favorite non-dairy yogurt for topping. 

2 cups Indian-spiced simmer sauce, or favorite korma curry sauce 
1 large head of cauliflower (2 lb.), cut into florets 
1 14-ounce can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
1 14-ounce can of diced tomatoes, (fire-roasted, optional) 
1 small onion, diced 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
One 1-inch piece of ginger, peeled and grated 
1 cup chopped cilantro 

for serving (any/all of the following): lemon olive oil, a squeeze of lemon, salted-smashed garlic yogurt, lemon zest, fresh herbs (cilantro, dill, etc.) 

Pour the sauce into the bottom of the Instant Pot in an even layer. Add the cauliflower, chickpeas, tomatoes, onion, garlic, and ginger. Give it all a little bit of a stir, and close the pot. Secure the lid, set the pressure release valve to SEALING. Press MANUAL for 4 minutes at high pressure. When cooking is complete, carefully QUICK RELEASE. Gently shake or tap the pressure cooker, and then carefully open away from you. Stir in half of the cilantro, and reserve the rest for serving. Scoop the korma into deep bowls and add as many toppings as you like. 

Serves 6. 

To make on a conventional stovetop, bring the sauce to a simmer, stir in all the other ingredients (except cilantro), cover, and cook until the cauliflower is tender - 5-7 minutes or so. Proceed with the recipe as written. 

Adapted from Jennifer Iserloh's The Healing Slow Cooker. 

For reference, this is the Instant Pot I used for this recipe: Instant Pot DUO Plus 6 Qt 9-in-1 

PREP TIME: 10 MIN - COOK TIME: 4 MIN 

PRINT RECIPE 
DECEMBER 23, 2017 
BROWSE MORE: 
CHICKPEA RECIPES 
TOMATO RECIPES 
CAULIFLOWER RECIPES 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE


Maple Grilled Tempeh Recipe 
This is another one of my clean-out-the-fridge recipes. Actually, I should rephrase that. This is a take-apart-the-entire-refrigerator, wipe-down-every-surface, throw-away-90% - of-the-condiments-crammed-in-the-door, and- figure -out-how-to-use-up-the-rest recipe. Tonight grilled tempeh was on the menu made with a marinade I cobbled together from a few of my surviving condiments and pantry items - maple syrup, soy sauce, garlic and ground chipotle pepper. 

Grilled Tempeh Recipe 


So good, so easy! I've failed too many tempeh attempts to count - part of the reason you never see tempeh recipes here. But not this time. The salty sweet marinade really worked its way into the tempeh. The heat from the grill added a nice touch of caramelization. It worked beautifully alongside the grilled mushroom, served on top of the earthy quinoa. 

For those of you looking for variations - this flavorful, salty-sweet marinade would work nicely on tofu as well. The marinade would also make a nice sauce for say, a soba noodle dish, or over pan-fried rice - just keep in mind it is fairly strong. Start with a drizzle and go from there. 

BROWSE MORE: 
TEMPEH RECIPES 
VEGAN RECIPES 
Maple Grilled Tempeh Recipe 
For those of you wanting to know what brand of tempeh is in the photo - Turtle Island Organic Five Grain Tempeh. I like it because it has a pleasant neutral flavor that isn't overpowered by other ingredients/seasonings in the tempeh, I like their flax variety as well. 

8 ounces tempeh 
3 tablespoons soy sauce (I prefer shoyu sauce) 
3 tablespoons maple syrup 
1 teaspoon rice vinegar 
2 cloves garlic, peeled, crushed and chopped 
1/2 teaspoon powdered chipotle (or a couple pinches of cayenne) 

optional (version in photo): 
1 -2 portobello mushrooms 
2 1/2 cups cooked quinoa or brown rice 
a handful of blanched green beans 


Cut the tempeh diagonally into 4 triangles. If possible, thin those triangles out by slicing each in half horizontally - 8 triangles total. Set the tempeh aside while you make the maple marinade by combining the soy sauce, maple syrup, rice vinegar, garlic, and chipotle powder in a small bowl. Reserve a few tablespoons of the marinade to use later as a drizzle. 

Place the pieces of tempeh flat in a large baking dish. Pour the remaining marinade over the tempeh. Make sure the tops and bottoms are coated and marinate for anywhere between 30 minutes and 2 days, flipping occasionally. 

Grill the tempeh on a medium hot grill for a few minutes on each side - Brushing all the while with the marinade remaining in the bottom of the baking dish. When the tempeh is a toasted, deep, maple-y, golden brown remove and enjoy on a sandwich, over rice, or however you like. If you want to try the preparation shown in the photo, throw a big portobello mushroom on the grill next to the tempeh, and brush it with some of the leftover marinade as well. When the mushroom and tempeh are done grilling, slice them into thin strips and serve over a bed of warmed quinoa (or rice) and barely-cooked green beans (broccoli might be nice too). I threw in a few (flowering) herbs from my garden for good measure - chives, thyme and oregano - and drizzled with the reserved marinade. 

Serves 2 - 4 
PRINT RECIPE 
JULY 10, 2008 
BROWSE MORE: 
TEMPEH RECIPES 
VEGAN RECIPES 


START RECIPE

Sushi Bowl Recipe 

I'm packing my bags and hopping a plane to New York City for what should be a jam-packed, exciting weekend. Super Natural Cooking is nominated for a James Beard Foundation Award(!) - a great excuse for me to trade coasts and cram as much food, friends, frolicking, and photography as humanly possibly into seventy-two fleeting Big Apple hours. It's a big weekend for my little book, so I thought I'd post one last recipe from SNC for you to enjoy - the Sushi Bowl. Looking back at the recipes I included in SNC, this is one that has remained a personal favorite of mine (top five for sure), and from what many of you have told me - it's now a favorite for many of you as well. Simply stated, we are talking about a de-constructed sushi roll - brown rice, tofu, avocado, toasted nori and green onions served with a tangy, sweet citrus-soy dressing. 

BROWSE MORE: 
BROWN RICE RECIPES 
SEAWEED RECIPES 
AVOCADO RECIPES 
Sushi Bowl Recipe 
I've included the instructions for cooking brown rice here, but when I'm pinched for time I just grab for frozen, pre-cooked brown rice (freeze it yourself, or look for it in the freezer section at Whole Foods). 

2 cups short-grain brown rice 
3 1/2 cups water 
2 teaspoons fine grain sea salt 
2 (4-inch) square sheets nori seaweed 
6 ounces extra-firm tofu 

grated zest and juice of one orange 
grated zest and juice of 1/2 lemon 
2 tablespoons (raw) brown sugar (reg. sugar is ok too) 
2 tablespoons shoyu sauce (or soy sauce) 
2 tablespoons (brown) rice vinegar 

4 green onions, chopped 
1 avocado, peeled, pitted, and thinly sliced 
3 tablespoons sesame seeds, toasted  


Rinse and drain the rice two or three times. Combine the rice, water, and salt in a heavy saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat, cover, and simmer gently until the water is absorbed, about 45 minutes. 

Toast the nori in a preheated 300F degree oven or a medium-hot skillet for a few minutes. Crumble or chop coarsely. 

Drain the tofu and pat it dry. Cut the block of tofu lengthwise through the middle to make four 1/4-to 1/2-inch thick sheets of tofu. Two at a time, cook in a dry skillet or well-seasoned skillet over medium-high for a few minutes until browned on one side. Flip gently, then continue cooking for another minute or so, until the tofu is firm, golden, and bouncy. Let cool, enough to handle, then cute crosswise into matchsticks (see photo). Repeat with the remaining sheets. 

To make the dressing, set the sheets aside. Combine the orange juice lemon juice, and sugar in a small saucepan and bring to a gentle boil. Cook for 1 or 2 minute, the add the shoyu and vinegar. Return to a gentle boil and cook another 1 or 2 minutes, until slightly thickened. Remove from the heat and stir in the zests. 

When the rice is done, stir in 1/3 cup of the dressing and add more to taste. Scoop the rice into individual bowls and top with the toasted nori, green onions, tofu, avocado slices, and a sprinkling of sesame seeds. 

Makes 4-6 servings. 

PRINT RECIPE 
JUNE 5, 2008 
BROWSE MORE: 


START RECIPE

Broccoli Pesto & Fusilli Pasta Recipe 
I opened my refrigerator the other night to find a lone head of broccoli staring back at me. I stared, it stared back - neither of us blinked. I suspect he knew that if I were to ignore him for another night or two there was a trip to the compost heap on the horizon. What to do? What should I make? I've been turning just about anything puree-able in my kitchen into a pesto lately, so I thought bingo! broccoli pesto it is. While I've dabbled in a broad spectrum of pestos over the years - basil, cilantro, asparagus, artichoke, green garlic, and even a scape pesto (these are just the green ones!), broccoli pesto was a first for me. And allow me to save you some reading - the key to good, broccoli pesto is to resist the urge to overcook the broccoli. Get that right, and you're well on your way to a unique, vibrant, and tasty meal. I used a toasted walnut nuts alongside the broccoli in the pesto and served it with whole wheat pasta, a bit of spinach, a few oily black olives, and some shaved Parmesan. A reasonably-sized serving topped with two poached eggs is a new favorite, nutritious, go-to meal for me - perfect for lunch. 


A bit more about pesto before we move on to the recipe itself. I love the way pestos pack an intense amount of flavor into every spoonful. They typically require a small list of ingredients, tolerate quite a bit of time in the refrigerator and, if needed, often make the jump to freezer without much trouble. In addition to using spoonfuls here and there on pastas or grains, I thin them out out to make a dressings, swirl them into soups, and stir them into yogurts or fresh cheeses. Hope you like this one :) 

BROWSE MORE: 
BROCCOLI RECIPES 
PASTA RECIPES 
MAIN COURSE RECIPES 
Broccoli Pesto & Fusilli Pasta Recipe 
You can certainly add a handful of basil to this for more traditional flavor - you'd still get the added al perks from the broccoli. And by all means, feel free to cook your broccoli in a skillet with a bit of salt, olive oil, and water. This way you won't lose as many nutrients in the cooking process - the boil and drain method takes more nutrients out of the final dish. I did the boil out of convenience this time around. 

1 medium head of broccoli (about 3 cups), cut into very small florets 
1/2 cup walnuts, toasted 
1/3 cup Parmesan, freshly grated 
1 clove of garlic 
juice of 1/2 a lemon 
1/4 teaspoon + fine grain sea salt 
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
1/2 pound (8 ounces) dried whole wheat pasta (bite-sized - fusilli, penne, etc) 
3 handfuls of spinach or chard, well chopped 
handful of oily black olives, pitted 

more Parmesan for serving 


Bring two pots of water to a boil, one large, one medium. In the medium pot you'll cook the broccoli, the large can be used for the pasta. 

To cook the broccoli, salt the boiling water and add the broccoli. Cook for just twelve seconds. Drain immediately and run cold water over the broccoli to stop the cooking. Reserve a few of the small broccoli trees and puree the rest in a food processor along with the walnuts, Parmesan, garlic, lemon juice and salt. Drizzle in the olive oil while still blending. Taste, adjust with more salt or lemon juice if needed and set aside. 

To cook the pasta, salt the boiling water generously and add the pasta. Boil until just barely tender. Drain, transfer the hot pasta to a large bowl and stir in the spinach, it should wilt. Gently stir in about half of the pesto. Taste, add more pesto to your liking. Served topped with olives, the reserved broccoli florets, and a dusting of Parmesan cheese. 

Makes about 6 side servings. 
PRINT RECIPE 
MAY 29, 2008 
BROWSE MORE: 
BROCCOLI RECIPES 
PASTA RECIPES 
MAIN COURSE RECIPES 


START RECIPE


Garlic Soba Noodles Recipe 
Dried pasta, garlic powder, olive oil, and Parmesan cheese - the ingredients that made up the backbone of my sister's college pantry. Toss hot, cooked noodles with a glug of olive oil, a big shake from the green can, a dusting of garlic powder - this was lunch. Not the most nutritious lunch mind you, but lunch none the less. I woke up the other morning craving these garlicky noodles and started to think about what an updated version might look like - preferably one that stepped up the game on the  front. I opted for buckwheat soba noodles in place of spaghetti noodles, threw in some greens for color, kept the Parmesan (now freshly grated), and served the noodles along side Parmesan-crusted tofu. That being said, you could certainly opt for another favorite protein source to balance out the plate. 


BROWSE MORE: 
SOBA NOODLE RECIPES 
KALE RECIPES 
MAIN COURSE RECIPES 
Garlic Soba Noodle Recipe 
I seek out (and tend to stockpile) Organic Planet soba noodles - they are thinner than many of the other brands on the market and made from a buckwheat / wheat flour blend. I like the way they behave after I've cooked them - they aren't prone to sticking or clumping. The powdered garlic I use is simply dehydrated garlic that has been ground. It has a harsher flavor than most fresh garlic you'll encounter, and the fragrance it puts off is different as well. I feel a bit of nostalgia for it, and actually like to use it for certain recipes (like this one). Feel free to toss in a few fresh cloves (chopped) in its place if you prefer. In that scenario I'd add the fresh garlic just before the chard. 

8 ounces dried soba noodles 

3/4 cup bread crumbs 
1/4 cup Parmesan freshly grated 
big pinch of salt 
12 ounces extra firm organic tofu, cut into 6 rectangular slabs 
2 eggs, lightly beaten 

a generous splash of olive oil 
1 bunch green onions, greens trimmed, thinly sliced 
4 big handfuls of chard, spinach or kale - destemmed and cut into bite-sized pieces 

1 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/2 cup Parmesan, freshly grated 

a few baby radishes, sliced paper thin 


Boil a large pot of water and cook soba noodles per packet instructions or until just tender. I like to salt my water generously as I would other pasta. Drain and set aside. 

While the water is coming to a boil, get the tofu started by combining the bread crumbs, Parmesan and salt in a shallow plate. Dunk each piece of tofu in the egg and then press into the bread crumbs. Make sure each piece is nicely coated with crumbs. Place each piece on a parchment-lined baking sheet and repeat with the remaining pieces. Bake in a 375 degree oven or pan-fry in a skillet in a bit of olive oil until both sides are golden, flipping once along the way. Slice into strips and set aside. 

Add the olive oil (and bit of salt) to a large skillet over med-high heat. Stir in the green onions, chard, and cook for a minute until the chard collapses. Stir in the soba noodles. Stir in the garlic powder and Parmesan. Remove from heat. Sprinkle with sliced radishes. Serve family-style or on individual plates - each nest of noodles topped with some of the tofu slices. 

Serves 4-6. 

PRINT RECIPE 
MARCH 3, 2008 
BROWSE MORE: 
SOBA NOODLE RECIPES 
KALE RECIPES 
MAIN COURSE RECIPES 


START RECIPE


Caramelized Tofu Recipe 
I needed to use up a few ingredients I had on hand before leaving for a trip to Big Sur last week (more on that later, I promise). I ended up throwing together what might become a new favorite meal on the fly - caramelized strips of tofu served over sauteed shredded brussels sprouts. I made it again yesterday for lunch so I could take a snapshot and share it with you. 

Here's how it came together: a quick survey of my kitchen revealed tofu and a cluster of brussels sprouts. There was also a vibrant bouquet of cilantro tucked into the refrigerator door begging to be used. I scanned the cupboards and pulled down a small bag of (already toasted!) pecans and the remnants of a once full bag of my favorite sugar. Garlic? Check. 


Just a few minutes of knife work and a some fast work with a hot pan separated me from my dinner. I cooked the tofu first, then finished with the brussels sprouts. It worked out nicely that only one pan was dirtied in the process. 

Some variations come to mind - throw in some nutty, chewy brown rice. You'll have a nicely balanced plate - vegetables, protein, and some complex carbohydrates from the rice. For those of you I failed to convert to fans with this brussels sprout recipe, spinach would be a nice alternative. With the pecans and the crusted sweetness, a few pinches of curry powder (or five-spice powder) would be delicious. There are now lots of great ideas in the comments (down below) as well. 

BROWSE MORE: 
TOFU RECIPES 
MAIN COURSE RECIPES 
Caramelized Tofu Recipe 
I used the Wildwood Organics baked savory tofu here, it browned up nicely and held it's shape, and as was mentoned in the comments it is non-GMO. Though any extra-firm tofu will work. 

7 - 8 ounces extra-firm tofu cut into thin 1-inch segments (see photo) 
a couple pinches of fine-grain sea salt 
a couple splashes of olive or peanut oil 
2 medium cloves garlic, minced 
1/3 cup pecans, toasted and chopped 
3 tablespoons fine-grain natural cane sugar or brown sugar 
1/4 cup cilantro, chopped 
1/2 lb. brussels sprouts, washed and cut into 1/8-inch wide ribbons 


Cook the tofu strips in large hot skillet (or pot) with a bit of salt and a splash of oil. Saute until slightly golden, about 4 minutes. Add the garlic and pecans, and cook for another minute. Stir in sugar. Cook for another couple of minutes. Remove from heat and stir in cilantro. Scrape the tofu out onto a plate and set aside while you cook the brussels sprouts. 

In the same pan (no need to wash), add a touch more oil, another pinch of salt, and dial the heat up to medium-high. When the pan is nice and hot stir in the shredded brussels sprouts. Cook for 2 - 3 minutes, stirring a couple times (but not too often) until you get some golden bits, and the rest of the sprouts are bright and delicious. 

Serves 2 - 3 as a main, 4 as a side 

PRINT RECIPE 
JANUARY 28, 2008 
BROWSE MORE: 
TOFU RECIPES 
MAIN COURSE RECIPES 


START RECIPE


Corn Quiche in a Tef Crust Recipe 
Today's update is going to be short and sweet. It is one of those rare San Francisco evenings where it is too warm not to be outside. 

Let me jump right into this post by saying, the world outside all-purpose, unbleached white flour is ripe for exploration. It is a realm that is exciting, flavorful, and not as intimidating as some of you might think - garbanzo flour, buckwheat flour, rye flour, almond flour, spelt flour, corn flour, graham flour, oat flour, and potato flour are all out there waiting to be turned into something delicious and innovative. And this is the short list. Most beans and grains can be found in flour form if you look hard enough. Many are unrefined, are available in organic and non-GMO varieties - often coming to market much more ally intact than say, unbleached APF. This is an incredibly rich palette from which to cook from - the trick is figuring out which flours are best suited for which purposes. Some flours are high in gluten, some have none. Some have strong, distinctive flavors, others are much more neutral. Some are powdery and soft, some are raggy and rough. 


I've been playing around with different types of flours all summer, and thought I would turn you onto this perfect, seasonal, crusted-quiche recipe by Rebecca Wood - it features a beautiful chocolate brown tef flour crust with fresh corn and tomatoes. Do you know Rebecca Wood? You should. If you don't have her book, The Splendid Grain, you should pick it up. It is one of the definitive books on cooking with grains, and earned Rebecca both the IACP Julia Child and James Beard Cookbook awards. Bonus: it is available in paperback. Need more convincing? Here are a few other recipes featured in The Splendid Grain: Pinon Crackers, Quinoa Butterscotch Brownies, Homemade Buckwheat Noodles, Sarrasin Crepes, and Crybabies (which I'm going to try next). 

Today's quiche/tart is summertime captured in a smooth, precision crust. The creamy corn flavor hits your tongue first, the summer tomatoes burst next, and then you are hit with accents of slivered basil and scallions (I skipped the green peppers). The tart shell offers up a slight hint of nuttiness but isn't overly rich or buttery -she calls for less than half the butter typical in many tart recipes. The crust functions as a beautifully dark, structured backbone and works effectively at counterbalancing the soft, fluffiness inherent to a quiche filling. When sliced the quiche maintains its structure and is easy to serve -beautiful and delicious. 

At some point I'll write more extensively about exploring flours, just not today. If you have a favorite creative way of using lets say, non-white flour, feel free to post in the comments. I'm sure many people are curious, and it will help round out this post. 

Corn Quiche Recipe in a Tef Crust 
1 cup tef flour 
1 cup whole wheat pastry or unbleached all-purpose flour 
1/4 teaspoon sea salt 
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter 
1/4 cup water 
Tabasco Sauce, to taste 
2 cups fresh corn kernels 
1 cup milk or soy milk 
4 large eggs 
1/4 teaspoon sea salt 
1/2 cup shredded Swiss cheese 
2 scallions, chopped 
1/2 cup minced green bell pepper 
2 cherry tomatoes 


Preheat the oven to 350�F. 
Put the tef and whole wheat pastry flours and salt in a food processor and pulse once or twice to mix. Cut the butter into chunks. Add to the flour mixture and pulse to form a crumbly meal. Season water with Tabasco and pulse into flour mixture to make a pliable dough. With your hands, form dough into a flat disk. Let rest for 10 to 15 minutes, no longer. Rollout between 2 sheets of wax paper to an 11-inch circle. Line a 9-inch pie plate. 

Combine the corn-and milk in a blender (or use a hand-blender) and blend until smooth. Add the eggs, more Tabasco, and more salt and blend just to mix Sprinkle all but 2 tablespoons of cheese on the pie crust. Pour in the corn mixture. Sprinkle scallions, green bell pepper, and remaining cheese over surface. Cut tomatoes into thin slices and arrange around the edge of the filling. Bake for 35 minutes, or until a knife inserted in the center comes out clean. 

VARIATIONS Substitute 2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil or tarragon for the scallions or bell pepper. Substitute Gouda, Lappi, Monterey Jack, or your favorite cheese for the Swiss. Heidi note: I used gruyere and divided the dough into four to make four 4 1/2-inch tartlets. 

Serves 6. 

The Splendid Grain by Rebecca Wood (William Morrow & Company, January, 1997) - reprinted with permission 

PRINT RECIPE 
JULY 14, 2005 
Welcome! 
I send an email roughly once a week, sharing new recipes and cooking inspiration. - xo heidi 

your email please 
  
Heidi Swanson 
FOLLOW ME: 
INSTAGRAM 
YOUTUBE 
FACEBOOK 


START RECIPE
BBQ Chicken Pizza: 
Submitted by: Shannon | Date Added: 3 Apr 2015 
Listed in: Pizza 
Ingredients 
1 (10-ounce) Italian cheese-flavored thin pizza crust 
3/4 cup tomato chutney*** 
2 cups chopped roasted skinless, boneless chicken breasts (2 breasts) 
2/3 cup diced plum tomato  
3/4 cup (3 ounces) shredded extra-sharp white cheddar cheese 
1/3 cup chopped green onions 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 450°. 

Place crust on a baking sheet. Bake at 450° for 3 minutes. Remove from oven: spread chutney over crust, leaving a 1/2-inch border. 

Top chutney with chicken. Sprinkle diced tomato, cheese, and green onions evenly over chicken. Bake at 450° for 9 minutes or until cheese melts. Cut pizza into 6 wedges. 

***If you can't find tomato chutney, make your own. Combine 2 cups diced plum tomato, 3 tablespoons brown sugar, 3 tablespoons cider vinegar, 1/8 teaspoon Jamaicañ jerk seasoning, and 1 minced garlic clove in a small saucepan: bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium: cook 20 minutes or untril thickened.*** 



START RECIPE
Ground Beef Pizza: 
Submitted by: Swanson | Date Added: 6 Apr 2015 
Listed in: Pizza 
Ingredients 
1 1/2 lbs. grnd beef 
2 (8 ounce.) cans tomato sauce with mushrooms 
2 (12) pizza dough circles 
1 (16 ounce.) pkg. sliced Mozzarella cheese, torn in pcs 
1 sm. clove garlic, chopped 
1 teaspoon dry oregano leaves, crushed 
1 sm. onion and green pepper, sliced & separated into rings (or your choice of toppings) 
1/4 c. grated Parmesan cheese 

Cooking Instructions 
In skillet, brown beef and drain off excess fat: add in garlic (garlic salt may be substituted for garlic clove, 1/8 tsp. is equal to 1 clove) and oregano.  

Spread tomato sauce over pizza dough circles. Top with meat. Arrange onion and green pepper rings over meat.  

Cover with Mozzarella cheese, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake at 425 degrees for 15 min or possibly till crusts are done. 


START RECIPE
Mexican Pizzas: 
Submitted by: Lana | Date Added: 12 Feb 2015 
Listed in: Pizza 
Ingredients 
Start to Finish: 5 minutes 
Cook: 8 servings 

FOR SAUCE: 
1/4 cup salsa 
1/4 cup sour cream 

FOR PIZZA: 
4 garlic-herb wraps (or any 10-inch tortillas) 
2 cups shredded Mexican cheese blend 
1 can (16-ounce) refried black beans 
1 package (18-ounce) precooked ground beef for tacos 
1/2 red onion, diced 
2 cups shredded lettuce 
1 tomato, diced 
Nacho sliced jalapenos or sliced pickled jalapenos (optional) 

Cooking Instructions 
Set up grill for direct cooking over medium heat. Oil grate when ready to start cooking. 

In a small bowl, combine salsa and sour cream: set aside. 

Lay out 2 garlic-herb wraps: sprinkle with cheese blend. Top with remaining wraps: set aside. 

In a microwave-safe bowl, microwave refried black beans on high heat setting (100 percent power) for 4 to 6 minutes or until heated through, stirring twice. 

Using a cookie sheet, place cheese-filled wraps on hot, oiled grill. Cook for 2 minutes: turn over. Divide refried beans between cheese-filled wraps. 

Spread evenly over the tops of the pizzas, leaving a 1/2-inch border. Top beans with taco meat and onion. 

Cover grill: cook 2 minutes. Using the cookie sheet, remove pizza from grill. 

Top with lettuce and tomato: drizzle with salsa-sour cream mixture. Garnish with sliced jalapenos (optional). Serve hot. 


START RECIPE
Mini Hawaiian Pizzas: 
Submitted by: Norris | Date Added: 16 Feb 2015 
Listed in: Pizza 
Ingredients 
Makes: 24 pizzas 
Cook: 2 minutes 

24 mini pita white bread rounds 
1 1/2 cups coarsely chopped ham 
1 1/2 cups coarsely chopped fresh pineapple 
1 1/2 cups shredded fontina cheese 
Garnish: crushed red pepper and chopped green onions 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to Broil. On a large rimmed baking sheet, place pitas. 

Top evenly with ham, pineapple, and cheese. 

Broil 5 inches from heat for 2 minutes, or until cheese melts. 

Garnish with crushed red pepper and green onions, if desired. 


START RECIPE
Asiago-Ham Pinwheels: 
Submitted by: Abby | Date Added: 16 Feb 2015 
Listed in: Appetizers 
Ingredients 
Makes: 16 pinwheels 
Cook: 15 minutes 

1 frozen puff pastry sheet, thawed according to package directions 
2 tablespoons apricot preserves 
1 1/2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
1/4 cup dried currants 
1/4 cup shredded Asiago cheese 
1 package (6-ounce) thinly sliced cooked ham 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. 

On a lightly floured surface, unfold puff pastry sheet. Using a rolling pin, roll sheet into 14-11-inch rectangle. 

In a bowl, combine preserves and mustard. Spread mixture over puff pastry, leaving a 1/2-inch border. Sprinkle with currants and cheese. 

Top with ham slices. Starting with a short side, roll rectangle up in a spiral. 

Using a pastry brush, lightly moisten edge with water: pinch to seal seam. Slice pastry roll into sixteen 1/2-inch slices. 

Place pinwheels, cut sides down, on prepared baking sheets. Bake for 15 minutes or until puffed and golden brown. Serve warm. 


START RECIPE
Best Cheese Ball: 
Submitted by: Simon | Date Added: 2 Mar 2015
Listed in: Appetizers 
Ingredients 
3 (8 ounce.) Packages cream cheese 
5 scallions 
1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 pkg. corned beef, minced 
Nuts (your choice) 

Cooking Instructions 
Roll in nuts. Makes 2 balls. 


START RECIPE
Black Bean And Chipotle-Sweet Potato Chip Nachos: 
Submitted by: Jenkins | Date Added: 16 Feb 2015
Listed in: Appetizers 
Ingredients 
Makes: 8 servings 

1 to 2 packages (6-ounce) sweet potato chips 
3/4 cup sour cream 
2 teaspoons fresh lime juice 
1 canned chipotle pepper in adobo sauce, minced 
3/4 cup mild black bean salsa 
Garnish: Sliced green onions and chopped cilantro 

Cooking Instructions 
Select larger flat sweet potato chips from bags, reserving smaller pieces for another use. 

In a small bowl, combine sour cream, lime juice, and chipotle. 

Spoon black bean salsa and sour cream mixture onto chips. 

Garnish with green onion and cilantro, if desired. 

Serve immediately. 


START RECIPE
Blue Cheese Pear Bite With White Chocolate: 
Submitted by: Ann | Date Added: 16 Feb 2015 
Listed in: Appetizers 
Ingredients 
Makes: 4 servings 
Cook: 8 minutes 

2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
1 pear, thinly sliced 
1/2 cup frozen chopped onions 
2 teaspoons lemon juice 
Kosher salt 
Freshly ground black pepper 
4 slices pumpernickel bread, toasted and each slice cut into quarters 
1 cup crumbled blue cheese 
1/4 cup white chocolate shavings 
Cooking Instructions 
Preheat the broiler on low. 

In a large skillet over medium high heat, add butter. When the butter has melted add the pear slices, onions, lemon juice, and a pinch each of salt and pepper. 

Cook until the pears are warmed through and soft but not falling apart, about 5 minutes. 

Place the toast squares onto a baking sheet. Lay a few slices of pears in a single layer on each toast square. 

Top each with the crumble blue cheese. Place under the broiler until the cheese begins to melt, about 1 to 2 minutes. 

Transfer to a platter, garnish each with a sprinkle of the white chocolate shavings and serve immediately. 



START RECIPE
Bruschetta With Herb And Almond Tapenade: 
Submitted by: Bryan | Date Added: 16 Feb 2015 
Listed in: Appetizers 
Ingredients 
Makes: 2 1/2 cups 
Cook: 10 minutes 

1 1/2 cups mixed fresh herbs, such as oregano, chives, thyme, tarragon, dill, basil, or parsley, finely chopped 
3/4 cup slivered almonds, toasted and finely chopped 
1 1/2 cups prepared olive tapenade 
1 tablespoon diced jalapeno 
1 tablespoon frozen lemon juice, thawed 
Toasted baguette slices 

Cooking Instructions 
In a medium bowl, stir together herbs, almonds, tapenade, jalapeno, and lemon juice until well mixed. 

Serve with toasted baguette slices. 


START RECIPE

Cheese Fondue: 
Submitted by: Carroll | Date Added: 13 Feb 2015 
Listed in: Appetizers 
Ingredients 
Makes: 6 servings 
Start to Finish: 20 minutes 

CHEESE FONDUE: 
1 package (8-ounce) cream cheese 
1 can (10-ounce) condensed cheddar cheese soup 
1/2 cup half-and-half 
1/2 cup shredded cheddar cheese 
Cut-up vegetables and pretzel sticks 

Cooking Instructions 
For Cheese Fondue, using a table knife, cut cream cheese into 1-inch pieces. Place in a microwave-safe bowl. Cover bowl with a paper towel. 

Microwave on medium-high for 1 1/2 minutes. Using oven mitts, remove from microwave. Remove paper towel. 

Using a wooden spoon, stir in cheddar cheese soup, the 1/2 cup half-and-half, and the cheddar cheese. Replace paper towel. Return to microwave. 

Cook on medium-high about 5 minutes or until smooth, stirring every minute. Serve with cut-up vegetables and pretzel sticks.
 

START RECIPE

Chicken Lettuce Wraps: 
Submitted by: Fletcher | Date Added: 16 Feb 2015 
Listed in: Appetizers 
Ingredients 
Makes: 4 servings 
Start to Finish: 15 minutes 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1 1/2 pounds uncooked ground chicken 
teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 
3/4 cup diced onions, finely chopped 
1/2 cup peanuts 
1/4 cup spicy Thai chile sauce 
4 teaspoons lime juice 
1/4 cup finely chopped fresh cilantro 
1 head lettuce, rinsed and patted dry 

Cooking Instructions 
In a large skillet, heat vegetable oil over medium-high heat. When oil is shimmering, add ground chicken, salt, and pepper. 

Cook chicken until cooked through, using a spatula to break into small pieces. Add chopped onions: cook and stir about 2 minutes or until onions are soft. 

Stir in peanuts, chile sauce, and lime juice. Heat through, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat and stir in cilantro. 

To serve, form a single lettuce leaf into a cup and spoon 2 tablespoons of the chicken mixture into lettuce cup. 

Repeat with remaining lettuce leaves and chicken mixture.



START RECIPE
Barbeque Bunyan Burger: 
Submitted by: samar | Date Added: 7 Aug 2014 
Listed in: Beef, Lamb & Goat 
Ingredients 
2 pounds ground beef 
2 tablespoons barbeque seasoning 
1 tbs pureed chipotle peppers in adobo sauce 
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened 
1 teaspoon barbeque seasoning 
1 tablespoon butter 
1 small onion, chopped 
1/2 bell pepper (any color), chopped 
1 (4 ounce) package sliced fresh mushrooms 
1 tablespoon minced garlic 
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 
1/2 cup barbeque sauce 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat. When hot, lightly oil grate. 

Mix together the ground beef, 2 tablespoons barbeque seasoning, and chipotle peppers in adobo sauce in a bowl: divide mixture into two halves: form each half into large rectangles, making one larger and thinner than the other: lay the rectangles on large sheets of aluminum foil. 
Mix together the cream cheese and 1 teaspoon barbeque seasoning: spread on top of the smaller, thicker rectangle of meat. 

Melt the butter in a skillet over medium-high heat. Cook the onion, bell pepper, mushrooms, and garlic in the hot butter until the onion has softened: spread atop the cream cheese mixture: top with the Cheddar cheese. 

Place the thinner rectangle of meat atop the smaller piece by lifting the aluminum foil beneath it and flipping it onto the cream cheese and vegetable layer.  

Use your hands to form a seal around the edges of the loaf, making sure the cheese and vegetable mixture will not leak out during cooking. Fold the edges of the aluminum foil beneath the loaf upwards, so as to form a bowl, to keep the grease from leaking onto the grill while cooking.  

Brush the top of the loaf with barbeque sauce. 

Cook on the preheated grill until the top of the loaf is cooked completely through, about 30 minutes. Slice into six even pieces to serve. 



START RECIPE
Best Ever Meatloaf!: 
Submitted by: yunas | Date Added: 7 Aug 2014 
Listed in: Beef, Lamb & Goat 
Ingredients 
2 onions, quartered 
2 carrots, cut in half 
1 tablespoon water, or as needed 
1 pound ground beef 
1 pound ground turkey 
2 cups matzo meal 
3 large eggs 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
salt and ground black pepper to taste 
1/2 (4 fluid ounce) bottle browning sauce 
1/4 cup ketchup (optional) 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat an oven to 375 degrees F. 

Place the onion, carrots, and water into a blender. Cover, and puree until smooth, adding more water if needed. 

In a large bowl, combine the ground beef, turkey, matzo meal, and eggs. Stir in the onion and carrot puree a little at a time until the meat mixture holds its shape (you may not need all the puree). Season with garlic, salt, and black pepper. 

Shape the meat mixture into a loaf and transfer to a baking dish. Pour the browning sauce and any remaining onion puree on top of the loaf. Fill baking dish with about 2-inches of water, then cover with aluminum foil. 

Bake in the preheated oven until loaf is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour and 20 minutes.  

Remove the foil and pour ketchup in a zig-zag shape over the loaf during the last 15 minutes of baking.  

An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 160 degrees F. 

Allow the meat loaf to rest for 15 minutes before slicing and serving. 


START RECIPE
All American Meatloaf: 
Submitted by: parvez | Date Added: 7 Aug 2014 
Listed in: Beef, Lamb & Goat 
Ingredients 
2 pounds ground beef 
1 cup quick cooking oats 
1 onion, chopped 
1/2 cup milk 
2 eggs 
1/4 cup ketchup 
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon dried basil 
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
2 tablespoons ketchup 
4 slices Cheddar cheese, halved 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Mix ground beef, quick oats, onion, milk, eggs, 1/4 cup ketchup, parsley, garlic, salt, basil, and black pepper together in a large bowl until thoroughly combined: pat the mixture into a 9 x 5-inch loaf pan. 

Bake meatloaf in the preheated oven until firm and no longer pink inside, 1 to 1 1/4 hours.  
An instant-read meat thermometer inserted into the center of the meat loaf should read at least 160 degrees F. 

Remove from oven, spread 2 tablespoons ketchup over loaf, and top with Cheddar cheese slices: return to oven and bake until cheese has melted, about 5 more minutes. 


START RECIPE
Almondigas (Meat Balls With Rice Vermicelli: 
Submitted by: Mccarthy | Date Added: 31 Mar 2015 
Listed in: Beef, Lamb & Goat 
Ingredients 
1 c. chopped beef 
1/2 c. grnd shrimp (optional) 
1 onion finely minced 
1 egg 
1 tbsp. vegetable oil 
1/2 c. misua (rice vermicelli) 
2 gloves garlic 
chicken (or possibly shrimp) stock pwdr 
minced spring onions 
salt and peppper to taste 

Cooking Instructions 
To the beef and shrimp, add in minced onion, egg and seasoning. Shape into balls.  

Saute/fry the garlic and onion and add in the chicken stock pwdr wtih 3 c. of water and bring to boil.  

Drop the meat balls one by one into the stock.  

When cooked add in misua (rice vermicelli) and season to taste.  

Serve warm. 



START RECIPE
Bacon Cheeseburger Meatloaf: 
Submitted by: raima | Date Added: 7 Aug 2014 
Listed in: Beef, Lamb & Goat 
Ingredients 
10 slices bacon 
1/3 cup ketchup 
2 tablespoons prepared yellow mustard 
1 pound ground beef chuck 
1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese 
2 eggs, beaten 
1/4 cup dry bread crumbs 
1/4 cup mayonnaise 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1 (3 ounce) can French-fried onions 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. 

Place bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes. Drain the bacon slices on paper towels. When cool, crumble into a large bowl. 

Mix ketchup and mustard in a bowl. 

Thoroughly combine 1/4 the ketchup mixture, ground chuck, Cheddar cheese, eggs, bread crumbs, mayonnaise, Worcestershire sauce, salt, and black pepper with crumbled bacon in bowl: pat the mixture into a 5 x 9-inch loaf pan.  

Spread remaining ketchup mixture evenly over top of meatloaf. 

Bake in the preheated oven until the meatloaf is no longer pink inside, about 45 minutes.  

Spread French-fried onions over the top of the loaf and return to oven until onions are browned and an instant-read meat thermometer inserted into the center of the loaf reads at least 160 degrees F 10 to 15 more minutes. 


START RECIPE
Bacon Wrapped Mushroom Meatloaf: 
Submitted by: hashir | Date Added: 7 Aug 2014 
Listed in: Beef, Lamb & Goat 
Ingredients 
1 pound ground beef chuck 
1 pound ground turkey 
1 pound ground lamb 
1 cup chopped button mushrooms 
1 cup bread crumbs 
3 eggs 
3 tablespoons minced garlic 
2 tablespoons dried thyme 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon mushroom-flavored soup base 
1 tablespoon dried parsley 
1 tablespoon dried sage 
1 pound bacon strips 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. 

Thoroughly mix beef, turkey, lamb, mushrooms, bread crumbs, eggs, garlic, thyme, soy sauce, soup base, parsley, and sage in a large bowl: shape into 2 loaves.  

Wrap bacon strips around the loaves to cover completely. Place loaves on a baking sheet. 

Bake in the preheated oven until the loaves are no longer pink in the center, 90 minutes to 2 hours.  

An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 160 degrees F 



START RECIPE
Chicken-Bacon-Ranch Burrito: 
Submitted by: Perkins | Date Added: 3 Apr 2015 
Listed in: Calorie Counting 
Ingredients 
1 slice center-cut bacon or turkey bacon  
3 oz. raw boneless skinless chicken breast, cut into bite-sized pieces  
1 tsp. lime juice  
1/8 tsp. salt-free seasoning mix  
1 wedge The Laughing Cow Light Creamy Swiss cheese  
1/4 tsp. ranch dressing/dip seasoning mix  
1/2 oz. (about 1 tbsp.) mashed avocado  
1/2 tsp. chipotle pepper sauce  
1 medium-large high-fiber flour tortilla with 110 calories or less 
1/2 cup shredded lettuce  
1/4 cup chopped tomato  
2 tbsp. chopped onion  

Cooking Instructions 
Cook bacon until crispy, either in a skillet over medium heat or on a microwave-safe plate in the microwave. (See package for cook time.)  

Bring a skillet sprayed with nonstick spray to medium-high heat. Add chicken, and top with lime juice and salt-free seasoning. Cook and stir for about 4 minutes, until cooked through.  

To make the sauce, in a small bowl, combine ranch seasoning with cheese wedge. Stir until smooth and well mixed. Add avocado and chipotle sauce, and stir until uniform.  

Microwave tortilla on a microwave-safe plate for 15 seconds, or until warm.  

Spread sauce down the middle of the tortilla, and top with lettuce, chicken, tomato, and onion. Chop or crumble bacon, and layer over the onion.  

Wrap tortilla up by first folding in one side (to keep filling from escaping) and then tightly rolling it up from the bottom. 


START RECIPE
Melty Veggie Sandwich: 
Submitted by: Murphy | Date Added: 3 Apr 2015 
Listed in: Calorie Counting 
Ingredients 
1 portabella mushroom cap (stem removed)  
2 slices light bread  
1 oz. (about 2 tbsp.) roughly mashed avocado  
1/2 tbsp. chopped fresh cilantro  
1/2 tsp. lime juice  
Dash salt  
Dash garlic powder  
Dash onion powder  
Dash black pepper  
1 slice Sargento Reduced Fat Pepper Jack cheese 
2 medium tomato slices  
1 thin slice red onion  
1 medium lettuce leaf  
2 tsp. light whipped butter or light buttery spread 

Cooking Instructions 
Bring a skillet sprayed with nonstick spray to medium-high heat. Place mushroom cap in the skillet, rounded side down. Cover and cook until soft, about 6 minutes.  

Meanwhile, lightly toast bread. In a small bowl, combine avocado, cilantro, lime juice, and salt: mix well.  

Remove mushroom cap from the skillet, and blot to remove excess moisture. Thinly slice, and sprinkle with garlic powder, onion powder, and pepper.  

Top one slice of bread with cheese, sliced mushroom, tomato, onion, and lettuce. Spread avocado mixture on the other bread slice, and place over the stack, avocado side down. Spread the top of the sandwich with 1 tsp. butter.  

Clean skillet, if needed. Re-spray and bring to medium heat. Carefully place sandwich in the skillet, buttered side down. Spread the top with remaining 1 tsp. butter.  

Cook until bread is golden brown and cheese has melted, about 2 minutes per side, flipping carefully. 



START RECIPE
Mushroom Pizza: 
Submitted by: Emmett | Date Added: 3 Apr 2015 
Listed in: Calorie Counting 
Ingredients 
1/4 cup thinly sliced shiitake mushrooms  
1/4 cup thinly sliced baby bella/cremini mushrooms 
1/4 cup thinly sliced white mushrooms  
1 wedge The Laughing Cow Light Creamy Swiss cheese  
1 tsp. grated Parmesan cheese  
1/4 tsp. garlic powder  
1 high-fiber pita  
1/4 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese  
1 1/2 tbsp. chopped scallions 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Spray a baking sheet with nonstick spray.  

Bring a skillet sprayed with nonstick spray to medium-high heat. Cook and stir all mushrooms until partially softened, about 2 minutes.  Transfer to a medium bowl, and blot away excess moisture.  

In a small bowl, combine cheese wedge, Parmesan cheese, and garlic powder. Mix until uniform.  

Lay pita on the baking sheet, and spread with cheese mixture, leaving a 1/2-inch border. Top with mushrooms and mozzarella cheese.  

Bake until mozzarella cheese has melted and pita is hot and lightly browned, about 10 minutes.  

Sprinkle with scallions, and cut into slices.  




START RECIPE
Beef Pot Pie: 
Submitted by: Lula | Date Added: 3 Apr 2015 
Listed in: Calorie Counting 
Ingredients 
1 lb. raw lean beefsteak, cut into bite-sized pieces  
1/8 tsp. each salt and black pepper  
6 cups frozen petite mixed vegetables, thawed  
Two 10.75-oz. cans 98% fat-free cream of mushroom condensed soup  
1 package refrigerated Pillsbury Crescent Recipe Creations Seamless Dough Sheet 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Spray a 9 X 13 baking pan with nonstick spray.  

Bring a large skillet sprayed with nonstick spray to medium-high heat. Add beef, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook and stir for about 5 minutes, until cooked through.  

Transfer beef to a large bowl. Add thawed veggies and soup, and mix well. Evenly transfer to the baking pan.  

Bake until hot and bubbly, about 15 minutes.  

Place dough over the contents of the baking pan, and carefully stretch to cover.  

Bake until dough is fully cooked and golden brown, about 18 minutes.  
MAKES 8 SERVINGS 



START RECIPE
Chedder Pudding: 
Submitted by: Yolanda | Date Added: 26 Jan 2015 
Listed in: Eggs & Dairy 
Ingredients 
3 slices turkey bacon, cut into 1 inch pieces 
1 small onion, chopped 
1/4 cup softened butter 
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 
9 slices white bread, crusts removed 
2 eggs 
1 cup milk 
1/4 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 pinch ground nutmeg 
1 tablespoon dry sherry 
1 (8 ounce) package grated Cheddar cheese 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 9 inch pie plate. 
Cook bacon in a skillet over medium heat until the grease has rendered out and the bacon has begun to brown. Stir in onion, and cook until softened and translucent, about 5 minutes: set aside. Meanwhile, stir together the softened butter and mustard in a small bowl until smooth. Spread this mixture on both sides of the bread, and set aside. Whisk together the eggs, milk, Worcestershire sauce, nutmeg, and sherry in a bowl. 
Line the bottom and sides of the pie plate with 3 slices of buttered bread. Spread half of the bacon and onion mixture evenly onto the bread. Add another layer of bread, then the remaining onion mixture. Finish with the remaining 3 slices of bread. Pour the egg mixture over the pudding, then sprinkle with Cheddar cheese. 
Bake in preheated oven until the center has firmed and the cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 20 minutes. 



START RECIPE
Christmas Brunch Casserole: 
Submitted by: ayesha | Date Added: 6 Aug 2014 
Listed in: Eggs & Dairy 
Ingredients 
1 pound bacon 
2 onions, chopped 
2 cups fresh sliced mushrooms 
1 tablespoon butter 
4 cups frozen hash brown potatoes, thawed 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon garlic salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 
4 eggs 
1 1/2 cups milk 
1 pinch dried parsley 
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 

Cooking Instructions 
Place bacon in a large skillet. Cook over medium-high heat until evenly brown. Drain and set aside. Add the mushrooms and onion to the skillet: cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent and the mushrooms are tender, about 5 minutes. 
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with the tablespoon of butter. Place potatoes in bottom of prepared dish. Sprinkle with salt, garlic salt, and pepper. Top with crumbled bacon, then add the onions and mushrooms. 
In a mixing bowl, beat the eggs with the milk and parsley. Pour the beaten eggs over the casserole and top with grated cheese. Cover and refrigerate overnight. 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour or until set. 


START RECIPE
Crab meat Quiche: 
Submitted by: misba | Date Added: 6 Aug 2014 
Listed in: Eggs & Dairy 
Ingredients 
3 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons chopped green onion 
3 tablespoons chopped red bell pepper 
1 cup crabmeat, drained and flaked 
salt and pepper to taste 
2 tablespoons white wine 
3 eggs, beaten 
1 cup half-and-half cream 
1 (9 inch) pie shell, partially baked 
1/2 cup shredded Swiss cheese 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 
Heat butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Saute green onion and red bell pepper until soft. Stir in crabmeat, and season with salt and pepper. Add wine, and cook for 1 minute. Remove from heat, and allow to cool. 
In a large bowl, beat eggs until light. Whisk in half-and-half, and crab mixture. Pour into pie crust, and sprinkle with Swiss cheese. 
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until puffed and golden brown. 

START RECIPE

Baked Potatoes: 
Submitted by: mike spencer | Date Added: 7 Aug 2014 
Listed in: Vegetables 
Ingredients 
4 large baking potatoes 
8 slices bacon 
1 cup sour cream 
1/2 cup milk 
4 tablespoons butter 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese, divided 
8 green onions, sliced, divided 

Cooking Instructions 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 

Bake potatoes in preheated oven for 1 hour. 

Meanwhile, place bacon in a large, deep skillet. Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown. Drain, crumble and set aside. 

When potatoes are done allow them to cool for 10 minutes. Slice potatoes in half lengthwise and scoop the flesh into a large bowl: save skins. To the potato flesh add sour cream, milk, butter, salt, pepper, 1/2 cup cheese and 1/2 the green onions.  

Mix with a hand mixer until well blended and creamy. Spoon the mixture into the potato skins. Top each with remaining cheese, green onions and bacon. 

Bake for another 15 minutes. 



START RECIPE


Thai Chili Glazed Salmon with Rainbow Veggie Fried Rice 
3 

Prep Time 20 minutes Cook Time 15-20 minutes Yield 4 servings 

Most weeks, I plan our menu carefully. I have main courses and sides figured out, and try to coordinate them to make the best use of ingredients without things going to waste. Other weeks when we are so busy that I don’t even have time to make a firm plan, I stock up on the things I know we will use and end up cooking on the fly. Chicken, tortillas, salmon, kale, pasta…I know I can make something delicious every night when we have our favorite basics on hand. With salmon especially, it is so easy to fall back on one of my two or three favorite recipes. Last week I wanted to switch things up, and suddenly I remembered a restaurant dish I had many months ago. Using that as my inspiration, I came up with this Thai chili glazed salmon over rainbow veggie fried rice and, well, now we have a fourth favorite salmon recipe. 

Since fried rice requires rice that has already been cooked and fully cooled, and because of all of the chopped/sliced veggies in this dish, this meal does require a bit of foresight. If made all at once it is not ideal for a weeknight. However, let me recommend my strategy. While the rice is cooking, go ahead and prepare the veggies – slice the onions and peppers, dice the carrots, shred the cabbage, etc. If the prep is done ahead of time, this becomes a quick meal that is totally amenable to a weeknight. This meal is fabulous because it is simultaneously fresh, colorful, and comforting. The whole family absolutely loved this meal and I hope yours loves it too! 

Ingredients 

For the fried rice: 

¾ cup rice (I use brown rice) 
½ tsp. salt 
1½ cups water 
1-2 tbsp. canola or peanut oil 
1 medium onion, thinly sliced 
1 red bell pepper, seeded and thinly sliced 
1 yellow bell pepper, seeded and thinly sliced 
1-2 carrots, peeled and diced 
8 oz. brussels sprouts, trimmed and thinly sliced (see note below) 
1 bunch scallions, sliced, greens and whites separated 
1 tbsp. finely grated ginger 
3 cloves garlic, minced or pressed 
¼-½ tsp. red pepper flakes 
1 cup shredded red cabbage 
3 tbsp. low-sodium soy sauce 
1 tsp. sesame oil 

For the salmon: 

4 (6-8 oz.) salmon fillets, skin on 
2 tbsp. olive oil, divided 
Salt and pepper 
About 6 tablespoons sweet Thai chili sauce 

Directions 

01    Rinse the rice in a fine mesh sieve under cool water. Shake to drain. Add the rice to a medium saucepan and combine with the salt and water. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then reduce the heat to a simmer, cover, and cook according to the package directions depending on the type of rice you are using. Once the rice is fully cooked, transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate until thoroughly chilled, at least 8 hours. 
02    Preheat the oven to 425° F and position an oven rack about 6 inches from the broiler. Season the tops of the salmon fillets with salt and pepper. Lightly brush the top of each fillet with about 1 tablespoon of the olive oil. Heat the remaining tablespoon of olive oil over medium-high heat in a 12-inch oven-safe skillet.  When the oil is hot, add the salmon fillets, skin side down, and sear for 3-4 minutes without turning to brown the skin.  (If you don’t want to eat the skin, this step also helps the skin stick to the pan so the fillets can be easily removed without the skin later on.) 
03    Once the bottom side is seared, brush the tops of the salmon fillets lightly with some of the chili sauce, taking care not to reuse the brush that has touched the undercooked salmon in the sauce that will be used later. Transfer the pan to the preheated oven and roast for about 4-5 minutes. Check the internal temperature of the salmon with an instant read thermometer. It should read about 140° F. When this temperature is reached, turn on the broiler. Brush the tops of the salmon fillets with a second generous coat of the chili glaze and return the pan to the oven. Allow the broiler to finish cooking the salmon, browning around the edges and on top. The salmon is finished when the internal temperature reaches 160° F. (Keep in mind that some pieces may finish cooking before others due to size variation – remove those and continue cooking the rest.) If your broiler is super strong and the salmon browns to your liking before the target internal temperature is reached, switch off the broiler and back to the 425° F oven to finish cooking through. 
04    While the salmon is cooking, make the fried rice. Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large sauté pan over medium-high heat. Add the sliced onion and bell peppers to the pan and cook until just beginning to soften, about 2 minutes. Add in the carrots, brussels sprouts, and white scallion parts and cook until those vegetables begin to soften, about 2 more minutes. Stir in the ginger, garlic and red pepper flakes and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, about 1 minute. Transfer this whole mixture to a separate dish and set aside. 
05    If necessary, add one more tablespoon of oil to the pan. Add the green scallion parts and stir quickly, then add the cold rice to the pan in an even layer, breaking up the clumps. Let cook without stirring, about 2 minutes, so that the scallions and the rice begin to brown on the bottom. Stir briefly to turn some of the top layer to the bottom of the pan and cook again without agitating, 2-3 more minutes. Once the rice is beginning to be well browned and the scallions are charred, return the rest of the cooked vegetables to the pan. Add in the soy sauce and stir to combine everything well. Stir in the cabbage. Cook just until the mixture is fully warmed through. Remove from the heat and stir in the sesame oil. Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary. 
06    Add a portion of fried rice to each plate. Carefully slide a spatula between the flesh and skin of the salmon to remove the skin, and place each fillet on top of a bed of fried rice. Serve immediately. 
07    Note: I like to use the slicing blade of my food processor for thinly slicing brussels sprouts because it is very convenient. The cabbage can also be shredded this way. However, both ts can be done perfectly well with a knife. 

Source 

Annie original 



START RECIPE


Ravioli with Charred Tomatoes, Corn and Basil 
23 

Yield about 4-5 servings 

Menu planning is integral in keeping our daily lives (and my sanity) running smoothly. When I work long days, fight just under an hour of rush hour traffic and finally get home and into the kitchen, the last thing I want is to have to start figuring out what to make for dinner. That needs to be already decided. Well, last Monday, a couple of hiccups in the usual system meant that my planned meal wasn’t a possibility. I had little brain power left and started just throwing together whatever sounded good. By some stroke of luck, we ended up with a new favorite meal that takes minimal time and minimal effort. It is a weeknight wonder for sure, and the kids go crazy for it! I knew that I needed to remake it right away so I could share it here with all of you. 

Let’s break it down. Basically you char some corn and cherry tomatoes under the broiler while the ravioli is cooking. Once the pasta is cooked and drained, the whole mess is tossed together back in the warm pan along with a paprika garlic compound butter and finished off with a generous dose of fresh basil. This is one of the best happy accidents since Caroline! (Totally kidding – she was planned.) Seriously though, this is a fantastically simple meal that highlights many of summer’s best flavors all in one place. What more could you really want on a hectic Monday evening? 
Ingredients 

1 pint cherry or grape tomatoes, halved 
Kernels cut from 2 fresh ears corn 
Olive oil 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper 
16 oz. cheese ravioli (I used goat cheese roasted tomato) 
3 tbsp. butter, softened 
3 cloves garlic 
1 tsp. fresh thyme leaves 
½ tsp. paprika 
Juice of ½ a lemon 
½ cup coarsely chopped basil 
Freshly grated Parmesan, for serving (optional) 

Directions 

01    Heat the broiler and position an oven rack just underneath it on the highest setting. On a sheet pan lined with foil, combine the tomatoes and the corn. Drizzle lightly with olive oil, season with salt and pepper, and broil, rotating the pan once, until the corn and tomatoes are beginning to char (approximately 6-8 minutes, depending on your broiler.) Remove from the oven and set aside. 
02    Meanwhile, fill a large sauté pan with water and bring to a boil. Once boiling, add the ravioli and cook according to the package directions. Drain and set aside. 
03    While the ravioli is cooking, combine the butter, garlic, thyme, and paprika. Stir together until evenly blended. Season generously with salt and pepper. Once the ravioli is out of the pan, return the pan to medium-low heat. Add the compound butter to the pan and melt. Return the ravioli to the pan along with the vegetables, the lemon juice and fresh basil. Toss together to combine. Remove from the heat. Serve warm with freshly grated Parmesan, if desired. 

Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7576/28596623025_a709b554cc_c.jpg 


START RECIPE


Citrus Salad with Honey Chèvre and Hazelnut Vinaigrette 
7 

Yield about 4 servings 

How on earth is it already the end of March? I can hardly believe it. We are starting to get a taste of spring-like weather, though at least here in Indiana I know we’ll have a few more cold spells before it warms up for good. This time of year is always a bit tricky for me, as my palate is craving lighter fresher fare but seasonal produce isn’t in sync with my cravings just yet. 

I dreamed up this salad while thinking about foods well suited for this bridge between seasons.  In the past I’ve been lukewarm to grapefruit for the most part, as you may gather from its relative scarcity in my archives. Recently I turned a corner with it, thanks in large part to pink grapefruit margaritas made with sorbet. (Never fear, that recipe will hit the blog very soon – likely sooner if you are just dying to have it ASAP.) I have been making this hazelnut vinaigrette for many months now and it has become one of my favorite go-to salad dressings. With an overabundance of grapefruit and blood oranges, and the desire for a salad with a little more somethin’-somethin’ than the standard, this dish materialized. The tart-sweet vibrant citrus with the nutty acidity of the vinaigrette and the sweet creaminess of the goat cheese are well balanced all together. This salad is one of those killer recipes that seems much fancier than it actually is. Who doesn’t love that?! 

Ingredients 

For the dressing: 

2 oz. (about ½ cup) hazelnuts, toasted and roughly chopped 
3 tbsp. balsamic vinegar 
1 tbsp. water 
1 tbsp. Dijon mustard 
1 tbsp. honey 
1 small shallot, finely minced or grated (about 1 tbsp.) 
1 tbsp. minced fresh tarragon 
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil 
¼ cup canola oil 
Salt and pepper 

For the salad:  

5-6 cups mixed tender salad greens 
1-2 blood oranges, supremed and thinly sliced 
1 pink grapefruit, supremed and thinly sliced 
2 oz. honey chevre, crumbled 

Directions 

01    To make the dressing, combine the hazelnuts with the vinegar, water, mustard, honey, shallot, and tarragon in a medium bowl. Whisk to combine. Slowly drizzle in the oils, whisking constantly to fully emulsify. The dressing should thicken significantly. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
02    Place the salad greens in a large bowl. Add a few tablespoons of the hazelnut vinaigrette and toss gently to coat the greens. Add more dressing as needed to taste. Transfer to a serving dish and top generously with thinly sliced citrus and crumbled goat cheese. Serve immediately. 

Source 

 

dressing slightly adapted from The Food Lab by J. Kenji Lopez-Alt 
Share On 



START RECIPE

Late Harvest Pizza 
4 

Yield 2 (12-14 inch) pizzas 

Guys, we made it. If your week has been anything like mine, it may have been just barely, but nevertheless – we made it. It’s Friday. Hallelujah! Clearly, pizza is in order. And if we’re going to do it, let’s do it right. This pizza is perfectly seasonal featuring a spicy pumpkin cream sauce, caramelized apples, caramelized onions, thinly sliced kale and radicchio, and garlic herb ricotta. In short, I LOVE it. 

Admittedly, given the various toppings, this takes slightly longer than a basic cheese pizza but it is definitely worth it. Plus, sipping a glass of wine or two while you prep the meal makes it that much more enjoyable. This was a huge hit in our house, and Andrew in particular raved about it with every bite. We are getting to the point now where the growing kids with their growing appetites means that one pizza is just not quite enough for all of us, so the recipe below is for two pies. Even if you don’t need more than one, I recommend making both anyway. We had a ton left over and it was delicious the following days as well. Cheers to fall, cheers to Friday, and cheers to pizza! 
Ingredients 

1 tbsp. olive oil, plus more for brushing 
1 large yellow onion, halved and sliced 
Pinch of sugar 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
2 tbsp. butter, divided 
2 medium-large apples (I used Pink Lady), peeled, cored and sliced 
1 tbsp. brown sugar 
Dash of ground cinnamon 
Dash of freshly grated nutmeg 
2 tbsp. water 
4 cloves garlic, minced or pressed, divided 
½-1 tsp. red pepper flakes 
1 tbsp. tomato paste 
1½ cups pumpkin puree 
3-4 tbsp. heavy cream 
1 cup ricotta cheese 
1 tsp. minced fresh rosemary 
½ tsp. fresh thyme leaves 
1 recipe perfect homemade pizza crust 
8 oz. shredded mozzarella 
2 oz. grated Parmesan 
1-1½ cups thinly sliced radicchio, plus more for finishing (optional) 
1-1½ cups thinly sliced kale 

Directions 

01    Place a pizza stone in the oven and heat to 500° F. Preheat for at least 30 minutes. 
02    Heat the olive oil in a medium skillet over medium heat. Add the sliced onion to the pan along with the sugar. Season with salt and pepper. Reduce the heat to medium-low and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion has fully softened, browned and caramelized, about 20-30 minutes. Transfer the onions to a bowl and set aside. 
03    Return the pan to medium heat and melt 1 tablespoon of the butter. Add the apples, brown sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg to the pan along with a pinch of salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the apples soften and brown. Add the water to the pan to deglaze and stir until the apples are evenly coated in their darkened juices. Set the pan aside to let cool. 
04    In a clean medium-large skillet over medium heat, melt the remaining 1 tablespoon of butter. Add 3 cloves of the garlic, the red pepper flakes and tomato paste to the pan. Cook about 1 minute, just until fragrant and beginning to brown. Add the pumpkin puree to the pan and stir in, cooking just a few minutes to warm through. Season with salt and pepper generously. Stir in the cream. Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary. Set aside. 
05    In a small bowl, combine the ricotta with the remaining 1 clove of garlic, rosemary and thyme. Season with salt and pepper. 
06    Divide the dough into two equal portions. Roll out the pizza dough into a 12-14 inch round on a piece of parchment paper. Lightly brush the perimeter of each dough round with olive oil. Spread half of the pumpkin sauce onto each pizza in an even layer. Sprinkle half of the shredded mozzarella and half of the grated Parmesan over each pizza. Spread the radicchio and kale slices over both pizzas. Divide the caramelized onions and apples between the two pizzas as well. Dot both pies with the herbed ricotta. 
07    Bake one pizza at a time. Transfer the pizza to the preheated pizza stone by sliding the parchment with the assembled pizza onto the stone, and bake until the cheese is melted and bubbling and the crust and toppings are lightly browned, about 12 minutes total.  Remove from the oven. Let cool slightly before slicing and serving. Top with additional fresh radicchio for an extra pop of texture and color, if desired. 

Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/6/5767/30533863386_20bc7391cc_c.jpg 


START RECIPE

Bourbon Vanilla Bean Peach Cobbler 
8 

Yield about 8 servings 

For me, there is no contest. Peach cobbler is the ultimate iconic peach dessert and whenever fresh summer peaches are at their peak, I can’t possibly pass up the opportunity to make one. This version with enhanced with vanilla bean and a splash of bourbon is fantastic. The fluffy biscuit topping is only lightly sweetened to let the natural sweetness of the peaches shine. 

Personally, I think a la mode is the only way to serve cobbler. However, if you are a bourbon lover and want to play up that flavor even more, consider topping this with bourbon whipped cream. Whip 1 cup of heavy cream with 2 tablespoons of powdered sugar until medium-stiff peaks form, being careful not to over whip. Blend in 1 tablespoon of bourbon and then adjust flavoring as desired. Serve this as an alternative to or in addition to the ice cream on the side. This is the perfect way to enjoy those lovely fresh peaches while they are in season! 

This is another of the peach recipes I have created for the Wildwood Market and Peach Truck Instagram photo contest. In case you missed the first post, full details are here. As a reminder, here are the entry details: 

For your chance to win a box of fresh Georgia peaches to pick up at that time as well as a $25 gift card to Wildwood: 

Make one of the peach recipes I share on the blog for this promotion. 
Share a photo of your creation with the world on Instagram! Be sure to include wildforpeaches and also tag thepeachtruck, wildwoodmarket, and annieseats. 
IMPORTANT ADDITION! If your instagram feed is not public, I won’t be able to see your entry. Instead, email photos to me at annieseats at gmail.com. 
For an extra entry, tag two friends as well who might be interested in some Peach Truck action. 
The contest will stay open until Wednesday, July 13 at 11:59 pm. 
Three winners will be selected. You must be able to pick up your prize from Wildwood. 

Ingredients 

2½ lbs. ripe fresh peaches, peeled and sliced ½-inch thick 
3 tbsp. sugar 
2 tsp. cornstarch 
1 tsp. freshly squeezed lemon juice 
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise 
1 tbsp. bourbon 

For the biscuit topping: 

1½ cups all-purpose flour 
3 tbsp. sugar 
2¼ tsp. baking powder 
½ tsp. kosher salt 
6 tbsp. cold unsalted butter, cut into cubes 
½ cup buttermilk 
Heavy cream, for brushing 
Coarse sugar, for sprinkling 

Directions 

01    Heat the oven to 400° F. In a large bowl, combine the peaches with the sugar, cornstarch, lemon juice, and the seeds scraped from the vanilla bean pod. Mix well to combine. Spread the peaches into a layer in a baking dish. 
02    In a medium bowl, combine the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. Mix briefly with a fork. Using two forks or a pastry cutter, cut the butter into the dry ingredients until the mixture is coarse and the largest butter chunks are the size of small peas. Pour in the buttermilk and stir gently with a fork until a dough has formed. Be careful to avoid overmixing or kneading, otherwise you will end up with a tough dough. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and pat to a thickness of about ¾- to 1-inch. Divide into 8 biscuits, either using a biscuit cutter or simply cutting with a knife. 
03    Place the biscuits on top of the peaches in the baking dish. Brush lightly with heavy cream and sprinkle with coarse sugar. Bake 35-40 minutes or until the peaches give easily punctured with a fork and the biscuits are golden brown. Serve warm a la mode or with bourbon whipped cream (see above). 

Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7335/27727669662_7dc46d9a55_c.jpg 


START RECIPE

Peach, Proscuitto and Pecan Summer Salad 
5 

Yield 4 servings 

I think it would be fair to say that fresh peaches are one of the very best things about summer. Of course, living here in the midwest, fresh peaches aren’t exactly our forte. Thankfully The Peach Truck has solved that problem for us. You can easily stock up on summer’s best peaches at one of their many tour stops or order and have them shipped to your door! One of my absolute favorite Indy spots, Wildwood Market, is hosting a Peach Truck stop this weekend and I am thrilled! To celebrate, we have partnered up for a fun contest with fabulous prizes for some lucky winners! I’ll be sharing peach recipes three days this week in anticipation of the first stop at Wildwood this weekend. Local readers who want a chance to win a box of peaches as well as a Wildwood gift card, read on below for details on how to participate! 

If you aren’t local to Indy and aren’t able to take part in this contest, no worries. You still get to enjoy some fabulous peach recipes! Today I’m sharing this awesome salad which is an ideal light, fresh summer lunch or dinner option. Peaches and proscuitto are a fantastic combination and they certainly shine here. The sweet-salty balance is totally on point. Candied pecans, fresh goat cheese and balsamic vinaigrette round the dish out nicely. (By the way, The Peach Truck sells Georgia pecans as well!) This meal will definitely be on repeat throughout the rest of the summer in our house. Oh, and I highly recommend pairing with a glass of chilled prosecco. 

Indy locals! Love fresh peaches and Wildwood Market? Perfect, you’re in luck! The Peach Truck will be making its second stop at Wildwood on Saturday, July 16. For your chance to win a box of fresh Georgia peaches to pick up at that time as well as a $25 gift card to Wildwood: 

Make one of the peach recipes I share on the blog for this promotion. 
Share a photo of your creation with the world on Instagram! Be sure to include wildforpeaches and also tag thepeachtruck, wildwoodmarket, and annieseats. 
IMPORTANT ADDITION! If your instagram feed is not public, I won’t be able to see your entry. Instead, email photos to me at annieseats at gmail.com. 
For an extra entry, tag two friends as well who might be interested in some Peach Truck action. 
The contest will stay open until Wednesday, July 13 at 11:59 pm. 
Three winners will be selected. You must be able to pick up your prize from Wildwood. 

Ingredients 

2-3 fresh peaches, pitted and sliced 
1½ tbsp. brown sugar, divided 
1 tsp. fresh lemon juice 
½ tbsp. butter 
½ cup pecan halves 
Coarse salt 
Dash of ground cayenne pepper 
3 tbsp. olive oil 
3 tbsp. balsamic vinegar 
Ground black pepper 
About 8 cups salad greens (I used a mixture of spring mix and baby kale) 
4 oz. fresh chèvre 
4 oz. proscuitto 

Directions 

01    In a medium bowl, combine the sliced peaches with 1 tablespoon of the brown sugar and the lemon juice. Toss to coat evenly, then set aside for about 30 minutes to draw the juices out. 
02    Meanwhile, melt the butter in a medium skillet over medium heat. Add in the remaining ½ tablespoon of brown sugar and mix, stirring constantly, until the sugar has dissolved into the butter. Add in the pecans and cook, stirring often, just until lightly toasted and fragrant, about 2 minutes. Season with salt and the dash of cayenne. Stir well. Remove from heat and set aside to cool. 
03    To make the dressing, combine the oil and vinegar in a liquid measuring cup. Whisk until well blended. Season with salt and pepper. Taste and adjust flavor as necessary. 
04    Divide the greens between serving plates. Top each serving with some of the macerated peaches, torn slices of proscuitto, candied pecans and crumbled chèvre. Serve immediately. 

Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7388/27705843232_17a56a9b38_c.jpg 


START RECIPE


Peach Lavender Gin Fizz 
3 

Yield 2 servings 

In my mind, summer cocktails should be three things: light, refreshing and not overly boozy. Gin is my spirit of choice these days, and it lays the perfect foundation for a fresh summery drink. Here fresh peaches and lavender are muddled together with gin and simple syrup, mixed with some freshly squeezed lemon juice and topped off with a splash of sparkling water. 

These are super simple and ideal for warm weather sipping. To play around with the flavor balance, try adding some peach slices to the pan while you make your simple syrup for an extra dose of peach flavor. Alternatively, make a lavender syrup to up the herbal notes in the drink. Whatever floats your boat. Let’s share another round, shall we? Cheers! 

This is another of the peach recipes I have created for the Wildwood Market and Peach Truck Instagram photo contest. In case you missed the first post, full details are here. As a reminder, here are the entry details: 

For your chance to win a box of fresh Georgia peaches to pick up at that time as well as a $25 gift card to Wildwood: 

Make one of the peach recipes I share on the blog for this promotion. 
Share a photo of your creation with the world on Instagram! Be sure to include wildforpeaches and also tag thepeachtruck, wildwoodmarket, and annieseats. 
IMPORTANT ADDITION! If your instagram feed is not public, I won’t be able to see your entry. Instead, email photos to me at annieseats at gmail.com. 
For an extra entry, tag two friends as well who might be interested in some Peach Truck action. 
The contest will stay open until Wednesday, July 13 at 11:59 pm. 
Three winners will be selected. You must be able to pick up your prize from Wildwood. 
 
Ingredients 

1 small or ½ large fresh ripe peach, sliced, plus more for garnish 
2-3 sprigs fresh lavender, plus more for garnish 
3 oz. gin (I like Bluecoat) 
3 oz. simple syrup 
2½ oz. fresh lemon juice 
Crushed ice 
Sparkling water 

Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7447/27794741306_aea2c11392_c.jpg 


START RECIPE


Chipotle Shrimp Tacos with Avocado, Corn and Tomato 
7 

Yield about 6 servings 

My goodness, things have been crazy lately! I had no intention of going this long between posts but life had other plans. A couple of jam packed work weeks, some outside dessert orders, and a whirlwind weekend full of food, drink, Josie and BEYONCE have had me like whoa. But you know I would never leave you hanging without a couple of recipes just in time for Cinco de Mayo, right?! You know me better than that. 

In case you are in the habit of mentally checking out of the week on Thursday night, especially when that Thursday is Cinco de Mayo, simplicity is key. These tacos may seem like they have a lot going on but I promise, the prep is super simple. They have just the right balance of spicy and sweet, crunchy and creamy, and they are completely satisfying without being heavy. Perfecto! 

Stay tuned for an appropriately festive drink recipe tomorrow, because there is no such thing as too many margarita recipes. 
Ingredients 

1 lb. medium shrimp, peeled and deveined 
¼ cup chipotles in adobo sauce 
Salt and pepper 
1 cup grape tomatoes, quartered 
1½ cups corn (fresh kernels cut from the cob or thawed frozen kernels) 
2 ripe avocados, pitted and diced 
½ cup cilantro, coarsely chopped 
Juice of half a lime 
1 cup thinly sliced green cabbage 
1 cup thinly sliced baby spinach leaves 
1½ tbsp. olive oil 
Corn tortillas, for serving 

Directions 

01    Place the shrimp in a medium bowl. Add the chipotles in adobo to a measuring cup or small bowl and use an immersion blender to puree until smooth. Add 1 tablespoon of water if necessary to help puree more easily. Add 2-3 tablespoons of the chipotle puree to the bowl with the shrimp. Season with salt and pepper and toss until evenly combined. Set aside. 
02    In a large bowl, combine the tomatoes, corn, avocado, cilantro, and lime juice. Season generously to taste with salt and pepper and toss gently to combine. In a small bowl, combine the cabbage and spinach, and toss to combine. 
03    In a large skillet, heat the olive oil over medium-high heat. Add the shrimp to the pan in a single layer and cook, turning once, just until opaque and cooked through, about 1-2 minutes per side. Remove to a cutting board and let cool briefly. Chop coarsely and add to the bowl with the corn and tomato mixture. Fold in gently until well combined. Assemble tacos with corn tortillas, the cabbage mixture, and the shrimp mixture as desired. 

Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7141/26197656274_7d6cccb4be_c.jpg 



START RECIPE


Whipped Goat Cheese Dip with Caramelized Onions 
8 

Yield about 12-16 servings 

I know there are lots of people out there who would qualify as goat cheese fanatics. Many of my best friends fit into this category. While I do enjoy goat cheese, it isn’t a guaranteed hit for me. The texture and the flavor have to be right. If it’s overly tangy or too crumbly, I’ll pass, but when it is right, it can be downright dreamy. Recently I tried a whipped goat cheese dip with caramelized onions at a restaurant and I basically haven’t been able to stop thinking about it. And when that happens, the only remedy is to find a way to make it at home. 

This dip is a perfect example of elegant simplicity. Just a handful of ingredients and minimal prep work give you this addictive creamy dip that is like a way sophisticated and way more delicious version of the onion soup dip from our semi-homemade days of high school or so. Serve with veggies, grilled bread, or any other edible item that serves as a delivery vehicle for getting it into your mouth as soon as possible. 
Ingredients 

1 tbsp. olive oil 
1 medium yellow onion, finely diced 
Salt and pepper 
Pinch of sugar 
12 oz. plain goat cheese 
3-6 tbsp. heavy cream 
1 clove garlic, minced or pressed 

Directions 

01    In a large skillet, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion to the pan, season with salt and pepper and add the sugar. Reduce the heat to medium-low and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion has fully softened, browned and caramelized, about 30 minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool. 
02    In the bowl of an electric mixer, combine the goat cheese and 3 tablespoons of the heavy cream. Mix until incorporated, then increase the speed and begin to whip. Continue whipping until smooth and fluffy, adding additional cream as needed 1 tablespoon at a time. (The total amount needed will vary depending on the initial texture and moisture content of your goat cheese. Adjust as needed to achieve your desired texture.) Once the dip is whipped and smooth, stir in the garlic and the caramelized onions. Chill until ready to serve. 
03    Note: With only one clove of garlic, the garlic flavor here is subtle. If you want more, feel free to increase it. If you aren’t a fan of raw garlic, add it to the onions at the end of cooking and cook just briefly, 1 minute or so.  

Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7671/26890268146_61264c3b79_c.jpg 


START RECIPE

Brussels Sprout, Leek and Gouda Pizza 
18 

Yield 1 large pizza 

People seem to fall into one of two camps on brussels sprouts – you either love them or hate them. Though I was only introduced to them within the past few years, I have firmly asserted myself as being in the love camp. This is in large part due to my favorite salad of all time (thanks, Josie!) but I have branched out from there and am always finding more and more ways to enjoy them. As a bonus, I love that they look like tiny baby cabbages. I’ve been considering some form of brussels sprout pizza for a while and finally decided to take a shot at it. This pizza is simple but so fantastic with thinly sliced brussels sprouts, leeks, gouda, a touch of lemon, and red pepper flakes. 


I was texting with some girlfriends while I was making this. We enjoy regular pizza + wine nights at least once a month at our favorite pizza place that always has lots of incredible seasonal combinations with unique names. When I told them what I was making, they 1) agreed it sounded amazing, and 2) proposed we call it “The Annie”. I think that has a pretty nice ring to it, but I might be biased. Either way, this is a great dish to bridge the gap between winter and spring. If you are the sort that thinks a pizza requires meat, bacon would be a nice addition here. However, last time I made this, I used smoked gouda instead of regular and found that it had a bacon-esque flavor without the bacon. Total win! As a bonus, the kids love this as leftovers in their lunchbox so I make an extra pizza for that purpose. Enjoy! 
Ingredients 

Pizza dough for 1 large pizza (regular or whole grain) 
8-1o oz. brussels sprouts, ends and outer leaves trimmed, thinly sliced 
2 tsp. olive oil, plus more for brushing 
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste 
Zest of ½ a lemon 
1 tsp. lemon juice 
3 oz. coarsely shredded gouda, preferably smoked* 
3 oz. coarsely shredded mozzarella* 
½ cup thinly sliced white/light green portion of a leek 
½ tsp. red pepper flakes 

Directions 

01    Place a pizza stone in the oven and heat to 500° F. Preheat for at least 30 minutes. Roll out the pizza dough into a 12-14 inch round on a piece of parchment paper. Lightly brush the perimeter of the dough with olive oil. In a medium bowl, gently toss the sliced brussels sprouts with the olive oil, salt and pepper, lemon zest and lemon juice. Sprinkle the shredded gouda and mozzarella over the round of pizza dough. Top with the brussels sprouts in an even layer, followed by the leeks. Sprinkle with the red pepper flakes. 
02    Transfer the pizza to the preheated pizza stone by sliding the parchment with the assembled pizza onto the stone, and bake until the cheese is melted and bubbling and the crust and toppings are lightly browned, about 10-12 minutes.  Remove from the oven. Let cool slightly before slicing and serving. 
03    *For best results, always use freshly shredded cheese.  Pre-shredded cheese comes coated in things such as flour or cornstarch to prevent clumping and results in an unpleasant, gritty texture when melted. 

Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/2/1593/25770454595_4fe5718dec_c.jpg 


START RECIPE


Fish Tacos with Mango Salsa and Avocado Cream Sauce 
15 

Yield about 4-5 servings 

If there is one type of cuisine I will simply never tire of, it is Mexican food. It is on our weekly menu at least two or three nights per week, and that’s when I exercise restraint. Seriously, I’ve had a longstanding and apparently insatiable quesadilla craving that has been going strong for months now. I try mix it up by rotating tacos, burritos, fajitas, quesadillas and enchiladas – so well rounded, right? 

Though I have other fish taco recipes that I already love, can you ever have too many good recipes for tacos? No way, man. This particular combo came to me a few weeks ago during one of our first warm weekends of the season. Though all of the components (tortillas, fish + marinade, salsa and sauce) are homemade, each is very simple so it still ends up being a fairly quick meal. It would also be a great one to prepare as a family or with a group of friends – assign one component to each person.  The kids loved the meal just as much as we did. In fact, they loved it so much that we made them again the very next weekend. Bright, fresh, and perfect for enjoying with a classic margarita – just an all around awesome spring meal.  Happy Friday, and have a fabulous weekend! 
Ingredients 

For the fish:  

2 tbsp. freshly squeezed lime juice 
2 tbsp. olive oil, plus more for cooking  
3 tbsp. minced cilantro 
¼ tsp. cumin 
¼ tsp. ground chipotle powder 
2 cloves garlic, minced or pressed 
Coarse salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste 
1½ lbs. white fish (halibut or tilapia) 

For the salsa:  

2 mangos, pitted, peeled and diced 
1/3 cup diced red bell pepper 
¼ cup finely chopped red onion 
1 tbsp. minced fresh cilantro 
Juice of one lime 
Pinch of coarse salt 

For the sauce:  

1 avocado, split and pitted 
½ cup low-fat greek yogurt 
1 clove garlic, minced or pressed 
Juice of 1 lime 
Coarse salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste 

Corn tortillas, for serving 
Directions 

01    To make the marinade, combine the lime juice, olive oil, cilantro, cumin, chipotle and garlic in a shallow dish or pie plate.  Season with salt and pepper to taste. Whisk together until well blended.  Place the fish in the mixture, turning to coat. Cover and refrigerate about 30 minutes. 
02    While the fish marinates, make the salsa and the sauce. To make the salsa, combine all the ingredients in a medium bowl, and toss until evenly mixed. To make the sauce, combine the avocado, yogurt, garlic and lime juice in the bowl of a food processor or a blender.  Process until smooth.  Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
03    Add a drizzle of olive oil to a nonstick skillet and heat over medium-high heat. Add the fish to the pan in a single layer (in batches, if needed) and cook, turning once, until the internal temperature measures 135° F for halibut or 145° F for tilapia on an instant read thermometer. Transfer to a plate or serving platter and flake with a fork. Assemble into tacos with corn tortillas, fish, mango salsa and avocado sauce. 

Share On         https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7628/17250331835_2efc38d94c_c.jpg 


START RECIPE

Veggie Tart with Parmesan Herb Cream Cheese 
14 

Yield 16 servings 

Alright then, moving right along from Cinco de Mayo and on to Mother’s Day. That makes for a pretty great week if you  me! You know the tired old veggie pizza made with canned dough that is served at parties everywhere? I’m not a big fan. The concept has a lot of potential but in my experience, the reality is lacking in flavor and often with a mushy texture. If we’re going to do something, let’s do it right! 

I wanted to give this classic party dish a much needed makeover. Puff pastry (homemade if possible!) lays a perfect flaky, buttery foundation for this dish. A homemade Parmesan herb cream cheese replaces bottled dressing or pre-seasoned spreads, and an array of colorful spring veggies completes this simple tart. 

I had a hunch that this would be good but my oh my, this is the weak in the knees kind of good. This would surely be a lovely addition to a Mother’s Day celebration this weekend, whether it is brunch, light lunch or the started for a special dinner. This version is definitely worthy of becoming a party staple. 

Ingredients 

1 sheet of puff pastry 
1 large egg white beaten with 1 tbsp. water, for egg wash 
4 oz. cream cheese, softened 
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese 
1 clove garlic, minced or pressed 
2 tsp. minced fresh basil 
1 tsp. minced fresh rosemary 
Salt and pepper, to taste 
1 tbsp. milk 

For topping: 

About 6 spears skinny asparagus 
Thinly sliced radish 
Shelled peas 
1 scallion, thinly sliced 
1 carrot, peeled and coarsely shredded 
Microgreens or additional fresh herbs, for garnish 

Directions 

01    Preheat the oven to 400° F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat. On a lightly floured work surface, roll the puff pastry sheet into a 12 x 12-inch square. Transfer to the prepared baking sheet. Use your hands to press down the center of the puff pastry dough, leaving a thicker ¾-inch rim around the edge for the crust. Lightly brush the sheet of puff pastry with the egg wash. Layer a second sheet of parchment paper over the puff pastry, then fill the center indentation with baking beads to weigh it down. (Dried beans or rice also work.) Bake until well puffed and beginning to brown, about 24 minutes total. Remove the baking beads and parchment and bake about 4-5 minutes more, until golden brown. Transfer the baking sheet to a wire rack and let cool completely before proceeding. 
02    Transfer the cooled puff pastry to a serving platter. In a small bowl, combine the cream cheese, Parmesan, garlic, basil, and rosemary. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Add in the milk and stir the mixture together until creamy and evenly combined. (This can also be done in a small bowl of a food processor.) Spread the cheese mixture in an even layer over the puff pastry. 
03    Trim away the woody ends of the asparagus and chop into 1-inch pieces. Blanch in a small pot of boiling water for 30 seconds. Remove immediately with a slotted spoon and let cool. Layer the asparagus, radish, peas, scallion, carrot, and microgreens over the tart. Slice into squares and serve. 

Share On 

START RECIPE

Mexican Chopped Salad with Chorizo, Avocado, and Cilantro Lime Dressing 
11 

Yield about 4 servings 

Salads of all kinds have become my weeknight meal go-to option of late. We have them at least twice a week, if not more. They are such a great way to get in multiple servings of veggies while also being quick and relatively simple to prepare, which is pretty much all I’m looking for after a full day of work while trying to get kids snacks, help with homework, etc. Chopped salads in particular have been on my mind since Josie started it all with the fabulous grilled summer veggie chopped salad and then went and made an equally awesome winter version. I also wasn’t kidding when I mentioned we might very well eat Mexican food for the entire month of May, and this salad was a perfect way to marry these two current obsessions. 

To be honest, I’ve made a few attempts at similar salads over the past year but something about each of them was missing the mark. Finally I found what I was looking for – this is The One. Usually very talkative during dinner, I think the only words from Andrew through this meal were “Yum!” and “This is so awesome!” between bites (and between reminders from us not to talk with his mouth full.) This will surely be on heavy rotation for us for the next few months and probably far into the future. Give it a try and let me know what you think! 
Ingredients 

For the dressing:  

1/3 cup freshly squeezed lime juice 
1 clove garlic, minced or pressed 
¼ cup extra virgin olive oil 
¾ to 1 cup loosely packed cilantro leaves 
Coarse salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste 

For the salad:  

8 oz. chorizo (about 2 links) 
About 1 to 1½ lbs. butter lettuce, coarsely chopped 
1 cup cherry or grape tomatoes, quartered 
3-4 oz. cotija, crumbled 
2 ripe avocados, pitted and chopped 
1 cup cooked corn kernels (from about 2 cobs) 

Directions 

01    To make the dressing, combine the lime juice and garlic in a liquid measuring cup or the bowl of a small food processor. Let stand 5-10 minutes. Add in the olive oil and cilantro and process until smooth. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Adjust lime juice and olive oil as necessary. Set aside. 
02    Cook the chorizo in a heavy skillet over medium heat, turning to cook all sides, until browned and cooked through (the internal temperature should read 160° F on an instant read thermometer.) Remove to a cutting board and let rest. Meanwhile, divide the lettuce between serving plates. Slice the chorizo into bite-sized pieces. Top each portion of lettuce with some of the tomatoes, crumbled cotija, avocado, chorizo and corn. Drizzle each portion with some of the dressing. Serve immediately. 
03    Notes: 
       Cook the corn however you prefer, or not at all. Raw corn off of the cob is delicious as well, and obviously even less work. I wouldn’t fire up a grill just for this recipe, so I cooked mine in a cast iron skillet with a tiny bit of olive oil.
       For a vegetarian version, skip the chorizo and replace with some cooked and well seasoned black beans or pinto beans.
       For a bit of creamier dressing, try blending in half of a ripe avocado. Adjust remaining flavors to taste. 

Share On         https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8843/17278274649_f5149c8b89_c.jpg 



START RECIPE


Banana Bread with Streusel Topping 
10 

Prep Time about 20 minutes Cook Time 50-55 minutes Yield 2 loaves 

Well, I blinked and it’s the holiday season and holy cow, I have ALL THE THINGS to do! Not that this is particularly different from any other time of year, but somehow it all feels a bit more pressing when this season comes around. It may have something to do with two kids who seem a bit like elves on speed. Not sure. 

Anyway, baking delicious loaves of banana bread serves many purposes at once. The act of baking it soothes my frayed nerves. It uses up the ridiculous number of bananas that somehow went brown and spotty all at once. It makes my house smell AMAZING. And it provides nourishment to the ravenous elves bouncing around my house. I have another banana bread recipe that I really like, but this one has surpassed it. The loaf itself is excellent, the topping is out of this world, and the combination is perfect. 

This is what I would consider one of those “in between” baked items. Healthy-ish enough thanks to its whole grain nature that you don’t need to feel guilty about enjoying it for breakfast, but not so virtuous that I would actually call it healthy outright. It is undoubtedly irresistible enough that it is fully worthy of gifting the second loaf if you can bring yourself to share. The streusel topping is out of this world. Don’t skip it! You might notice, it is the very same one that topped a cranberry pie last week. If you need a nut-free version, a reader wisely suggested using ground biscoff cookies in place of the pecans. I haven’t tried that myself but it sounds like a delicious alternative! 
Ingredients 

For the bread:  

4 cups (452 grams) white whole wheat flour 
4 tsp. (16 grams) baking powder 
1 tsp. ground cinnamon 
½ tsp. grated nutmeg 
1 cup (226 grams) butter, softened 
2 cups (426 grams) light brown sugar 
4 large eggs 
28 oz. very ripe bananas (peeled weight), or about 6 medium bananas 
2 tsp. vanilla extract 

For the topping: 

¾ cup (85 grams) pecans 
2/3 cup (66 grams) rolled oats (or ½ cup / 46 grams oat flour) 
½ cup (56 grams) white whole wheat flour 
1/3 cup (66 grams) granulated sugar 
1/3 cup (71 grams) light brown sugar 
½ tsp. ground cinnamon 
¼ tsp. kosher salt 
6 tbsp. (85 grams) butter, melted 

Directions 

01    Heat the oven to 350° F. Line two 9.5 x 5 x 3-inch nonstick loaf pans with parchment paper. In a medium bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, cinnamon and nutmeg, and whisk to blend. In the bowl of an electric mixer, combine the butter and sugar. Beat on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, 2-3 minutes. Add in the eggs one at a time, beating each until incorporated. Blend in the vanilla. In a separate bowl, mash the bananas with a fork until lumpy but not fully crushed. Add the mashed bananas to the bowl with the batter and fold in gently with a spatula. With the mixer on low speed, add in the dry ingredients, mixing just until incorporated. Divide the mixture between the prepared loaf pans and spread into an even layer. 
02    In a medium skillet over medium-low heat, toast the pecans about 5 minutes, stirring frequently, until lightly browned. Set aside to let cool. If using rolled oats, grind them in a food processor until finely ground to a powder. To make the topping, combine the oat flour, white whole wheat flour, sugars, cinnamon and salt. Add the pecans to a food processor and pulse until coarsely ground. Add the pecans to the bowl with the other dry ingredients. Add in the melted butter and stir together with a fork until it forms a crumbly mixture. Evenly sprinkle the mixture over the batter in the two loaf pans. Gently press down to help the streusel adhere to the top. 
03    Bake the loaves for about 50-55 minutes until golden brown on top and a skewer inserted in the center comes out clean, rotating the pans halfway through the baking time. Transfer the pans to a wire rack and let cool 15-20 minutes before removing the loaves to cool completely. 
04    Notes: 
       White whole wheat flour is pretty widely available but if you can’t find any, no worries. Use a mix of whole wheat and all-purpose, or solely all-purpose.
       This makes quite a lot of streusel topping. I used most but not all of mine. Don’t stress about it. Too much streusel isn’t a thing.
       The recipe halves easily if so desired. But why make one loaf when you can have two? Share the second  or freeze for easy snacking or breakfasting later. 

Source 

bread adapted from Nigel Slater via Food52 Genius Recipes, topping from Smitten Kitchen 
Share On 


START RECIPE


Whole Grain Ciabatta 
15 

Yield 2 12-inch loaves 

Some snacks are totally worthy of being made a meal all on their own. As far as I’m concerned, a great loaf of freshly baked bread with garlic herb oil and a bit of tomato sauce is a perfect example of this. Wine non-optional, obviously. (Side note: Have you made that tomato sauce yet? Because it’s amazing.) 

Despite being a fairly experienced bread baker, ciabatta and I haven’t always gotten along. Some loaves have turned out okay, but I had one past recipe from a very trusted source setting off fire alarms and coming out of the oven with a striking resemblance to a block of coal. I really wanted to try my hand at a whole grain version but was understandably anxious. Thankfully these loaves could not have turned out better.  The dough for ciabatta is very sticky and wet so this is one of the few instances in bread baking where you really need a mixer to do the work that can’t be done by hand. If you have never tried ciabatta, this is a nice reliable recipe with fantastic results. It made for a lovely lunch number 2/downfall of dinner, and was also a perfect vehicle for sandwiches later in the week. 
Ingredients 

For the pre-ferment:  

1 cup (4 oz.) whole wheat flour 
½ cup (4 oz.) cool water 
Pinch of instant (rapid rise) yeast 

For the dough:  

All of the pre-ferment 
1¼ cups (5 oz.) whole wheat flour 
2¼ cups (9½ oz.) unbleached bread flour 
1¼ cups (10 oz.) cool water 
¼ cup (1¾ oz.) olive oil 
¼ cup (1 oz.) nonfat dry milk  
1½ tsp. salt 
¼ tsp. instant (rapid rise) yeast 

Directions 

01    To make the pre-ferment, combine the whole wheat flour, water and yeast in a small mixing bowl. Stir together until evenly mixed. Cover and let rest overnight at room temperature. 
02    To make the dough, combine the pre-ferment, whole wheat flour, bread flour, water, olive oil, nonfat dry milk, salt and yeast in the bowl of an electric mixer.  Mix just to combine, stop, and let rest for 45 minutes. 
03    With the dough hook attached, knead with the mixer on low speed for 10 minutes.  Use a spatula or dough scraper to transfer the dough to a lightly greased large mixing bowl. Cover with a clean kitchen towel and let rise for 3 hours total, gently deflating it at each hour mark (a total of three times.) 
04    Let the dough rest in the bowl 10 minutes while you line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. With well greased hands, break the dough into two even pieces. Leave one piece in the bowl. Gently stretch the other piece of dough into a log about 10 inches long and lay on one of the prepared baking sheets. Stretch and pat until it is about 12 by 3 to 4 inches. Repeat with the remaining piece of dough. 
05    Cover both baking sheets with heavily greased plastic wrap laid loosely over the loaves. Allow to rise until very puffy, about 2 hours. Near the end of the rise, preheat the oven to 425° F. If using a baking stone (preferred), place it on the lowest oven rack. 
06    Remove the plastic wrap. If baking on a stone, transfer the dough (parchment and all) to the heated stone. (Otherwise, place the baking pans on the lower and middle oven racks.) Bake, rotating the loaves halfway through the baking time, until they are nicely browned and an instant read thermometer inserted into the center of each loaf registers 205° F or higher, about 20-25 minutes total. Turn off the oven, remove the loaves from the pans and place directly on the oven racks. Leave the oven door cracked 2 inches and allow to cool in the oven. (The bread is best served warm but can be refreshed by wrapping in foil and rewarming in the oven at 350° F for about 10 minutes.) 

Source 

King Arthur Flour Whole Grain Baking 
Share On         https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2912/14462921836_e42d5e5235_z_d.jpg 


START RECIPE


Honey Yeast Rolls 
76 

Yield about 10-12 rolls 

With Thanksgiving less than two weeks away, I decided it was high time to dust off a favorite old recipe and bring it back into the spotlight.  As long as I can remember, simple dinner rolls have been my favorite food on any holiday table.  I first encountered this recipe for honey yeast rolls in my early days of blogging and they instantly won my heart.  I make them often throughout fall and winter to accompany soups and stews, and they are a certainty on our Thanksgiving menu.  (Alongside this garlic herb compound butter – an absolute must.) 

Over the years, I have ed the recipe slightly to ensure a better texture.  Many readers have also ed whether these could be made in advance.  Previously I had no good answer to that question.  This weekend I experimented with a make-ahead strategy and it worked beautifully.  So, I give you the new and improved version of my beloved honey yeast dinner rolls, now with a make-ahead option. 
Ingredients 

2¼ tsp. instant yeast 
1 cup warm water (105-115° F) 
¼ cup honey 
3 tbsp. canola oil 
1¼ tsp. salt 
1 egg, lightly beaten 
3½-4 cups bread flour 
2 tbsp. butter, melted 
2 tbsp. honey 

Directions 

01    In the bowl of an electric mixer, combine the yeast and warm water.  Add the honey, oil, salt, and egg and mix well.  Add 3 cups of the flour and mix until the dough comes together in a sticky mass.  With the mixer on low speed, incorporate the remaining ½ to 1 cup of flour a few tablespoons at a time.  Continue kneading on low speed for about 8 minutes, until the dough is smooth and elastic. 
02    Transfer to a lightly oiled bowl, turn once to coat, and cover with plastic wrap.  Let rise in a warm, draft-free spot until doubled in bulk, about 2 hours. 
03    Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and knead for 30 seconds.  Cover with a towel and let rest for 10 minutes.  Punch the dough down and divide into 10-12 equal size pieces.  Shape each piece into a smooth ball and place into a round, lightly greased 9- or 10-inch round baking dish, spacing evenly.*  Cover and let rise in a warm, draft-free spot for 20-30 minutes. 
04    Preheat the oven to 400° F.  Mix together the melted butter and honey, and brush the tops of the rolls with the mixture. Sprinkle lightly with coarse salt.  Bake for 15-20 minutes until the tops are golden brown.  Cover loosely with foil and continue to bake about 10 minutes more, or until the the center of the rolls registers 190° F on an instant-read thermometer.  Let cool slightly before serving. 
05    *To make the rolls a day in advance, prepare the dough as above through to shaping.  Cover with plastic wrap and transfer to the freezer.  Leave there to stop the rise, 2-4 hours.  Transfer the baking dish to the refrigerator and leave overnight.  The rolls will begin to rise again slowly while refrigerated and will eventually puff up and into each other.  The following day, about 18-24 hours after the dough was prepared, bake as directed above.  You may need to add 2-3 minutes to the baking time, but monitoring the internal temperature is the most reliable way to check for doneness. 

Source 

(now defunct blog) A Cookie a Day 
Share On         http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7460/10916171775_3e8a614de9_z.jpg 

START RECIPE

Apple Cider Doughnuts 
11 

Yield about 18 doughnuts + holes 

Weekend mornings, particularly in fall, were made for baking. To me, there is not much better than wandering around still in cozy pajamas able to open the windows just a crack to let in the crisp fall air while making something delicious in the kitchen. There is an excellent chance cinnamon will be involved. Doughnuts often seem like a huge ordeal because of the frying involved (ugh, frying), but really, they don’t require much more effort than other baked goods. There are several little breaks throughout the process making them an ideal weekend project. And in the end, the frying is totally worth it, because doughnuts! Apple cider doughnuts…with cinnamon sugar coating. Let’s make them already, okay?! 

Though I generally prefer yeasted doughnuts, these are incredibly good cake doughnuts. I was very pleased with the texture and flavor, and they didn’t go stale nearly as quickly as I would have expected. Overall these were fun to make and even more fun to eat. I would love to hear how well you fare against that little unassuming bowl of doughnut holes because as it turns out, I was powerless to its presence. I wandered past that bowl so many times for so many “reasons”, and suddenly it turned up empty and me with cinnamon sugar all over my lips. I know nothing, I swear! Make some doughnuts this weekend, loves. You won’t be sorry. 

Note: I learned from experience, this recipe halves beautifully. However, upon tasting the doughnuts, we all instantly regretted the decision to halve the recipe. Do so at your own peril. 
Ingredients 

1 cup apple cider 
3½ cups flour 
2 tsp. baking powder 
1 tsp. baking soda 
½ tsp. kosher salt 
½ tsp. ground cinnamon 
1/8 tsp. grated nutmeg 
4 tbsp. butter, at room temperature 
1 cup granulated sugar 
2 large eggs 
½ cup buttermilk 
Vegetable oil or shortening, for frying 

For coating: 

1 cup granulated sugar 
1½ tsp. ground cinnamon 

Directions 

01    Add the cider to a small saucepan over medium high heat. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat to a brisk simmer and cook until the volume is reduced to ¼ cup. Set aside to cool briefly. 
02    In a medium bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Whisk to combine. Set aside. 
03    In the bowl of an electric mixer, combine the butter and sugar. Beat on medium high speed until smooth and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add in the eggs one at a time, mixing each just until blended in. Scrape down the sides of the bowl as needed. With the mixer on low, add in the reduced cider and the buttermilk. With the mixer still on low, add in the dry ingredients, mixing just until incorporated and the dough comes together. 
04    Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and dust generously with flour. Turn the dough out onto the baking sheet, sprinkle the top with flour, and use your hands to flatten the dough into a slab about ½-inch thick. Use a second sheet of parchment on top if needed to help with this process. Transfer to the freezer and chill so the dough is firm, about 20 minutes. Remove the dough from the freezer and use a 3- or 3½-inch round cutter to cut rounds out of the dough and about a 1-inch cutter to cut out the doughnut holes. Reroll remaining dough scraps and cut more rounds as needed. Return the shaped doughnuts to the refrigerator to chill for 20-30 minutes. 
05    Add enough vegetable oil or shortening to a deep pot to give a depth of 3 inches. Attach a thermometer to the side of the pot to monitor the temperature. Heat the oil to 350° F. While the oil is heating, combine the sugar and cinnamon for the coating in a bowl and mix to blend evenly. Have a baking sheet lined with a double layer of paper towels and a slotted spoon or skimmer ready. When the oil reaches the appropriate temperature, add a few of the doughnuts to the pot, being careful not to overcrowd them. Let fry about 60 seconds, then flip and fry on the second side about 30-60 seconds more or until golden brown. Use the skimmer to remove the finished doughnuts from the oil and transfer to the lined baking sheet. Let cool just a few moments, then carefully dip to coat in the cinnamon sugar mixture. Repeat with the remaining doughnuts and doughnut holes. 

Source 

barely adapted from Smitten Kitchen, originally from Lauren Dawson at Hearth Restaurant 
Share On         https://c2.staticflickr.com/6/5731/30164460041_6fd4b879af_c.jpg 


START RECIPE


Stuffed Pretzel Rolls with Beer Cheese Sauce 
19 

Yield 2 dozen rolls 

Ta-dah! As promised, carbs and cheese. This killer snack is brought to you courtesy of playoff season. Despite the fact that my interest in any pro sport has faded to basically non-existent, my mind still registers the timing of big games and, apparently, dreams of worthy game day fare. Even though I would rather be playing with the kids, reading, knitting, or some combination of the above, I am more than happy to partake in the the food festivities. And what is more typical football food than beer and pretzels? 

I decided to take the classic combo up a notch by making filled pretzel rolls. So many fun filling ideas came to mind while brainstorming but in the end, I made three varieties for testing purposes: jalapeño popper, chorizo, and caramelized onion. (By the way, these are my much improved answer to the former filled pretzel bites, since removed from the site for unreliability. These do require a tiny bit more effort but have a much more consistent and successful outcome.) The fabulous thing about these is that the sky is the limit when it comes to fillings. We dipped these in a beer cheese sauce that was an excellent pairing for all three fillings. 

I know that someone will  about making these ahead of time. I have not tested any make ahead form of this recipe and suspect that, because of the filling factor, these are likely best made fresh. However, if I were going to try making them in advance, I would pull from my previous soft pretzel experience and make these up to the point of filling and shaping, then freeze. Once frozen, I would boil the dough balls directly from the freezer and then add a minute or two to the standard baking time. If you try this, please let me know how it works for you.  Make these a part of your weekend plans whether you will be ing the game, in a super cool knitting frenzy, or something even more interesting. They will be a hit regardless! 
Ingredients 

For the dough: 

1½ cups warm water (110-115° F) 
1 tbsp. sugar 
2 tsp. kosher salt 
2¼ tsp. instant yeast 
22 oz. all-purpose flour (about 4½ cups) or 20 oz. white whole wheat flour 
4 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted 
Vegetable oil, for greasing the bowl 

For filling/topping:  
Chorizo 

¾ lb. chorizo, crumbled and cooked through 
2 tsp. kosher salt mixed with ¼ tsp. ground chipotle, for topping 

Jalapeño Popper 

3 large jalapeños, seeded and chopped 
3 oz. cream cheese, softened 
¼ tsp. garlic powder 
3 oz. monterey jack, freshly shredded 
Salt and pepper 

Caramelized Onion 

1 large onion, caramelized 
Everything seed topping, for topping 

To finish: 

12 cups water 
¾ cups baking soda 
1 egg yolk beaten with 1 tbsp. water 

For the sauce:  

2 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted 
2 tbsp. all-purpose flour 
1 tbsp. cornstarch 
1 cup beer (wheat beer, blonde ale, pale ale, or pilsner suggested) 
2 cups shredded medium cheddar 
1 cup milk 
Salt and pepper 

Directions 

01    To make the dough, combine the water, sugar, salt and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment.  Mix on low speed to dissolve the yeast.  Add in the flour and melted butter and mix just until the dough comes together.  Switch to the dough hook and knead on medium speed until the dough is smooth and clears the sides of the bowl, about 5 minutes.  Transfer the dough to a bowl lightly greased with vegetable oil, turning once to coat.  Cover with plastic wrap and let rise in a warm place, about 50-55 minutes or until doubled in bulk. 
02    While the dough rises, prep the filling. (The chorizo and caramelized onion fillings are self-explanatory.) For the jalapeño popper filling, sauté the jalapeños in a bit of oil just until softened, about 5 minutes. Let cool, then combine all ingredients in a bowl and mix well. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
03    When the dough has risen, divide into 24 equal pieces. (A kitchen scale makes this an easy job. My dough balls weighed about 40 grams each.) Work with one piece of dough at a time, keeping the rest covered with a clean kitchen towel. Flatten the piece of dough lightly, fill with about 1 tablespoon of the filling mixture, then form the dough into a ball around the filling and pinch securely shut. Place the ball seam-side down and repeat with the remaining dough balls. 
04    Preheat the oven to 450° F. Line baking sheets with parchment paper and grease lightly. Meanwhile bring the water and baking soda to boil in a large pot. Place the rolls into the boiling water, 6-8 at a time for 30 seconds. Flip once and boil 30 seconds more. Remove from the water with a slotted skimmer and transfer to the prepared baking sheet. 
05    Once all the pretzels have been boiled, brush the tops lightly with the egg wash and sprinkle with their respective toppings. Bake in the preheated oven until dark golden brown, about 12-14 minutes. Let cool slightly before eating. 
06    To make the sauce, combine all ingredients in a food processor or blender. Process 5-8 minutes, until thoroughly blended. Transfer the mixture to a medium saucepan and heat over medium-high heat. Bring to a simmer, whisking constantly, until the mixture thickens, about 5 minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper as needed. Serve immediately. 
07    Notes: 
       Each filling recipe above makes enough to fill the full two dozen pretzel rolls. If you want to make less or make a variety, cut down the filling amounts accordingly. (Or make the full amounts and save leftovers for a killer omelette later.)
       Always use freshly shredded cheese for best texture. Pre-shredded cheese is coated in anti-clumping agents such as flour or cornstarch that will result in a gritty texture when melted. 

Source 

pretzel dough from Alton Brown via Food Network, sauce slightly adapted from The Beeroness 
Share On         https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8580/15636586534_faa36c65a8_c.jpg 


START RECIPE


Baking with Whole Grains: Quick and Easy Whole Wheat Bread 
48 

Yield 1 8½-inch loaf 

Recently I was chatting with Ben about ideas for this whole grain baking series and he ed, “Why eat whole grains?  What makes them better?”  An excellent question to be sure, for anyone learning to eat more clean, whole foods.  There are many sources to explain this in much greater depth than I will here but essentially, a whole grain includes all three parts of a grain’s kernel.  As a result, whole grains have more protein, fiber and vitamins than refined grains such as white flour.  These characteristics mean that whole grains provide numerous health benefits.  For more information on whole grains and their benefits, the Whole Grains Council is a fantastic online resource.  (Side note – I’m totally pumped that my beloved popcorn is a whole grain.  Just be sure to use butter and salt sparingly to keep it a smart snack.) 

When I started this series, I ed what recipes you would like to see and a great many of you enthusiastically requested a good whole wheat sandwich bread.  There are countless variations out there, and many I plan to try, but this is the first that you need to know about.  This, my friends, is a fantastic quick and easy 100% whole wheat sandwich bread. 

Now, if you are relatively new to bread making you may be thinking I’m nuts for calling this recipe quick.  However, as bread recipes go, this really is about as quick and easy as it gets.  Throw all the ingredients into the bowl at the same time, mix up the dough, and let it rise.  No sponge, nothing fancy – you don’t even have to proof the yeast.  So yes, this may take about three to four hours from start to finish but only about 15 minutes of that is active.  The free time while the dough rises is glorious, and one of my most favorite things about bread making…rivaled only by the smell of fresh bread baking in the oven.  Play with the kids, read, knit, or all of the above – that’s what I do :) 

King Arthur Flour has provided several great giveaways over the course of this series, and today we are giving away an awesome bread pan plus a flour coupon.  Head on over to the giveaway page to enter!  Also, be sure to check out King Arthur Flour’s Whole Grain Baking book and their website for tons more well developed and well tested whole grain recipes. 
Ingredients 

2 tbsp. (1 oz.) orange juice 
1 cup (8 oz.) lukewarm water 
4 tbsp. (2 oz.) unsalted butter, softened and cut into 6 pieces 
3 cups (12 oz.) whole wheat flour** 
3 tbsp. (1¼ oz.) sugar 
Heaping ½ cup (1¼ oz.) dried potato flakes or 3 tbsp. (1¼ oz.) potato flour 
¼ cup (1 oz.) nonfat dry milk 
1¼ tsp. salt 
2½ tsp. instant (rapid rise) yeast 
Directions 

01    Combine all ingredients in a medium bowl and mix together.  Knead the dough (by hand or with an electric mixer) until a soft, smooth dough is formed.  Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled bowl, turn once to coat, and cover with plastic wrap or a clean kitchen towel.  Let the dough rise until puffy and nearly doubled in bulk, 1 to 2 hours. 
02    Lightly grease an 8½ x 4½-inch loaf pan.  Gently deflate the dough on a lightly floured work surface and pat into an 8-inch square.  Roll up tightly into a log and pinch the seam shut.*  Transfer the dough to the loaf pan seam side down, press down gently so the dough reaches all the edges, and cover with a kitchen towel.  Let rise until the dough has risen about 1½ inches above the top of the loaf pan, about 1½-2 hours. 
03    Preheat the oven to 350° F.  Bake for 15 minutes, then tent loosely with foil and bake 25 more minutes or until an instant read thermometer inserted in the center reads 190° F.  Transfer to a wire rack to cool about 5 minutes, then turn out of the loaf pan and continue to cool at least 20 minutes before slicing. 
04    *To make a loaf with a braided top, divide the dough into two portions, about two thirds and one third (I use a kitchen scale to make sure I divide the dough correctly.)
       Shape the larger portion of dough into a tight loaf and press into the pan, seam side down.  Divide the remaining portion of dough into three equal parts.  Shape each portion into a rope about 11 inches long. 
05    Pinch the three ropes together and braid. 
06    Place the braided portion of dough on top of the loaf in the pan and press down on top. 
07    Cover with a towel and let rise until the dough has risen about 1½ inches above the top of the loaf pan, about 1½-2 hours.  Bake as directed above. 
08    **Whole grain baking tip:  As soon as whole wheat flour is milled, the oil inside begins to oxidize and over time, will turn rancid giving the flour a bitter taste.  To avoid this bitter flavor, store whole wheat flour in the freezer (immediately, even before you open the bag).  Let sit at room temperature at least 15 minutes before using in a recipe. 

Source 

King Arthur Flour Whole Grain Baking 
Share On         http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5521/9223437327_43bcc30f02_z.jpg 


START RECIPE

Whole Wheat English Muffins 
15 

Yield about 10 english muffins (depending on size) 

A lot of people wax poetic about english muffins, their nooks and crannies, etc etc. As much as I love butter, I have just never been one of those people. Too many of the store-bought variety as a kid maybe, and those are nothing to write home about.  However, english muffins do have their strengths. For me, the very best thing about them is that they make an excellent vehicle for a breakfast sandwich. And if you know me, you know I looove a good breakfast sandwich. 

As with the majority of our home baked breads, I have been transitioning to whole grain baking. Finding decent whole grain english muffins has been a more complicated endeavor than I might have imagined. I’ve lost track of how many different recipes and subsequent s I have tried. Some lacked in flavor, some in texture, some had impractical methods. Finally I am satisfied. These are simple to make but have great flavor and texture, good enough to make them worthy of their own spot at the breakfast table, even when they aren’t part of a breakfast sandwich. 
Ingredients 

2¼ tsp. instant (rapid rise) yeast 
1/3 cup warm water 
¾ cup buttermilk, at room temperature 
½ cup low-fat greek yogurt, at room temperature 
2 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted 
1½ tsp. honey 
1 tsp. kosher salt 
2 cups (250 grams) white whole wheat flour 
½ tsp. baking soda 
Yellow cornmeal or semolina flour (for sprinkling the baking sheet) 
Additional butter (for greasing the pan) 

Directions 

01    In a medium bowl, combine the yeast, water, buttermilk, yogurt, butter and honey. Stir well until evenly combined. Stir in the salt, flour and baking soda until all of the dry ingredients are incorporated and a wet dough is formed. Cover the bowl with a clean kitchen towel and let the dough rise until doubled, about 1-2 hours. 
02    Preheat the oven to 350° F. Line a baking sheet with a silicone baking mat or parchment paper and sprinkle lightly with cornmeal or semolina flour. Heat a non-stick skillet (preferably cast iron) over medium heat. Grease evenly with butter. Using a large dough scoop (about 3 tablespoons), drop a scoop of dough into the heated skillet. Repeat to fill the pan, spacing the scoops at least 3 inches apart. Cover the pan and let cook about 4 minutes. Flip the muffins over to the other side, cover the pan again, and cook 3-4 minutes more, until both sides are nicely browned and the muffins have puffed up. Transfer to the prepared baking sheet and repeat with the remaining dough, adding more butter to the pan as needed. 
03    Once all of the muffins have been cooked in the skillet and placed on the baking sheet, transfer the baking sheet to the oven and bake until the muffins are fully cooked through, about 8-9 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool slightly before splitting and serving as desired. 

Source 

adapted from The New York Times 
Share On         https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7455/16422569822_fc4c7e222b_c.jpg 


START RECIPE


Buttermilk Cornbread with Chipotle Honey Butter 
13 

Yield 1 9 x 13-inch pan 

I have vivid memories of the first time I tried asparagus. I was about four at the time and it was billed to me as “a special treat with (my) lunch”. I’m imagining something spectacular and probably some kind of dessert, and then I am presented with not just asparagus, but mushy, canned asparagus. ::shudders:: I didn’t try it again until I was a teenager since I was convinced that all asparagus would be that way. Imagine my surprise when I realized how wonderful fresh cooked asparagus can be. Even the least picky people probably have a few foods that they think they don’t like. In so many of these situations, I think the real problem was a bad first impression. Your first encounter with the food was not good because in that instance, the food itself was less than ideal. And what does all this have to do with cornbread? Cornbread was another food that I believed I did not care for until fairly recently. 

At some time in the recent past, I had cornbread again. It must have been included with my meal because I’m sure I wouldn’t have ordered it. Anyway, same story. Revelation that cornbread is actually good stuff. It was only a matter of time till I made it at home and put my own spin on it. The bread itself is great – a nice basic cornbread recipe that tastes fab and is easy to make. I added cheddar cheese and a dash of chipotle powder to the bread itself and then served it with an awesome chipotle honey butter. Not gonna lie, the butter is kind of a show stopper. We had this with chili (a new recipe I’ll be sharing next week) and it was the perfect accompaniment. 
Ingredients 

2 cups yellow cornmeal, preferably stone ground 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
1/3 cup sugar 
4 tsp. baking powder 
1 tsp. salt 
½ tsp. chipotle powder 
1½ cups buttermilk, at room temperature 
2 large eggs, at room temperature 
½ cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted and 
cooled slightly 
1 cup coarsely shredded cheddar cheese (optional) 

For the butter:  

4 tbsp. unsalted butter, slightly softened 
1 tbsp. honey 
¼ tsp. chipotle powder 
Pinch of coarse 

Directions 

01    Preheat the oven to 400° F. Grease a 9 x 13-inch baking pan. In a large mixing bowl, combine the cornmeal, flour, sugar, baking powder, salt and chipotle powder: whisk to blend. In a large liquid measuring cup or other bowl, combine the buttermilk, eggs and butter. Whisk until well blended. Add the wet ingredients to the bowl with the dry ingredients and mix together just until combined. Fold in the cheddar. 
02    Spread the batter into the prepared pan. Bake just until set and the edges begin to pull away from the sides of the pan, about 18-20 minutes. Let cool on a wire rack before slicing and serving. 
03    To make the chipotle honey butter, combine all ingredients in a bowl and mix well. (Note: The measurements above are approximate, as I usually make compound butters to taste. Start here, taste, and adjust to your liking.) 

Source 

adapted from Williams Sonoma 
Share On         https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3952/15614465536_90094b7aba_c.jpg 



START RECIPE

Baking with Whole Grains: Whole Grain Pizza Dough 
41 

Yield enough dough for 2 large pizzas or 6 calzones 

Over the past six (!) years that I have been here in this space sharing recipes with you, I’ve learned lots about what foods you all like and what foods you love.  It comes as no surprise that pizza is near the very top of the list of best loved foods for most people.  I’m certainly no exception.  We make pizza at least once every few weeks if not more, and over the past few years we have gotten pretty darn good at making awesome pizza at home.  Having a stellar pizza crust recipe and method have made all the difference, but of course as I continue making more things using whole grains, pizza was clearly something I needed to transition. 

Many of you have been ing for a wheat pizza dough recipe for quite some time but to be perfectly honest, I wasn’t sure where to start.  Thankfully King Arthur Flour’s Whole Grain Baking book had a few recipes that gave me a great starting point.  I first tried this dough as 100% whole wheat (using all white whole wheat flour).  While the dough held up well to toppings and tasted great, we found it a bit lacking in texture.  So, I continued to play around with the recipe, experimenting with different proportions of flour and different methods. 

The version here has been our favorite of them all, and it’s exactly what I was hoping for.  It uses half white whole wheat flour to provide a al boost, but also uses half bread flour to give the dough that chewy texture we look for in a great pizza.  I fully expect this to become our go-to dough from now on because really, why not?  It’s every bit as good as our old favorite but it’s a bit healthier, and it’s all ready to be dressed up with your favorite toppings. 

King Arthur Flour has generously agreed to provide several great giveaways over the course of this whole grain baking series.  Today we are giving away one of my absolute favorite kitchen essentials – a pizza stone, as well as a flour coupon.  Head on over to the giveaway page to enter!  Also, be sure to check out King Arthur Flour’s Whole Grain Baking book and their website for hundreds more reliable whole grain recipes. 
Ingredients 

2½ cups (10 oz.) white whole wheat flour* 
2½ cups (10 5/8 oz.) unbleached bread flour* 
2 cups (16 oz.) lukewarm water 
4½ tsp. instant (rapid rise) yeast 
1¾ tsp. salt 
1 tbsp. plus 1 tsp. olive oil 
1 tbsp. plus 1 tsp. honey 
Dash of dried oregano, basil, and cayenne pepper (optional) 
Directions 

01    In a medium bowl or in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine the flours, water, yeast, salt, olive oil and honey.  Mix together on low speed until a cohesive dough has formed.  If desired, sprinkle with dried oregano, basil and/or cayenne for additional seasoning (optional).  Continue to knead until a smooth, elastic dough has formed, about 6 minutes.  Transfer to a lightly oiled bowl, turning once to coat.  Cover with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in size, 1½-2 hours. 
02    Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and gently press down to deflate it.  Divide the dough into two equal pieces.  Form each piece of dough into a smooth, round ball.  (If freezing the dough for later use, wrap in plastic wrap and freeze at this point.)  Cover with a clean kitchen towel.  Let the dough relax for at least 10 minutes. 
03    To bake, preheat the oven and pizza stone to 500° F for at least 30 minutes.  Transfer the dough to your shaping surface, lightly sprinkled with cornmeal.  Shape the dough with lightly floured hands.  Brush the outer edge lightly with olive oil.  Top as desired.  Bake until the crust is golden brown, and cheese is bubbling, 8-12 minutes. 
04    For step by step photos and other tips on homemade pizza dough, please see this post.
       *If desired, this dough can be made 100% whole grain by using all white whole wheat flour and omitting the bread flour.  However, the bread flour gives the dough the chewy texture that makes homemade pizza dough extra special.  While the dough still tastes good with 100% white whole wheat flour, you may find the texture somewhat lacking. 

Source 

adapted from King Arthur Flour Whole Grain Baking 
Share On         http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7373/9289647486_a4a0b80d5a_z.jpg 



START RECIPE

Wheat Baguettes 
21 

Yield 3 baguettes 

I’ve never been one for new year’s resolutions, and I would certainly never agree to one that involved less carbs. But more carbs, in the form of homemade bread? I could totally get on board with a resolution like that. For me, there are few things in the kitchen that I enjoy more than the act and reward of baking yeast breads. This is especially true during these cold winter months when baking bread fills the kitchen with warmth and amazing smells. It occurred to me that I have made three yeast breads so far this year, and that seems like a pretty good start to what could be an excellent habit. I’ve always been a frequent baker but I love the idea of bread baking being a routine part of my week, every week. Baguettes are an absolute staple in our house and I keep at least a few in the freezer at all times. With my continual efforts to do more and more baking with whole grains, it was definitely time to find a good wheat baguette recipe. 

This version is precisely what I was hoping for. It has the same look and texture of the classic baguettes that I love, with a crisp and slightly chewy outer crust and a nice tender interior. It is a champ at soaking up delicious pan sauces, it makes excellent toast smeared with good butter and a sprinkle of coarse salt, and I’m dying to try it in baked French toast. So many reasons to bake it. What are you waiting for? 
Ingredients 

For the pre-ferment: 

1 cup (4 oz.) whole wheat flour 
½ cup (4 oz.) cool water, plus more as needed 
Pinch of instant yeast 

For the dough:  

All of the pre-ferment 
¾ cup plus 2 tbsp. (7 oz.) cool water 
¼ cup (2 oz.) orange juice 
1¼ (5 oz.) whole wheat flour 
2¼ cups (9½ oz.) unbleached bread flour 
1½ tsp. kosher salt 
¼ tsp. instant yeast 
1 large egg white mixed with 1 tbsp. water, for egg wash 
Water, for spraying 

Directions 

01    To make the preferment, combine the whole wheat flour, water, and yeast in a small bowl. If the mixture is overly dry and loose flour cannot be incorporated, add more water a teaspoon or two at a time just until all dry ingredients are incorporated and no loose flour remains. Cover and let rest overnight at room temperature. 
02    To make the dough, combine the preferment in a bowl with the water, orange juice, wheat flour, bread flour, salt and yeast. Knead either with a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook or by hand, until the dough is smooth and elastic (about 5-7 minutes.) Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl, cover, and let rise 3-4 hours, gently deflating and turning once per hour. 
03    Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface. Divide the dough equally into three pieces and form each into a rough oval. Cover with greased plastic wrap and let rest for 15 minutes. Line a baking sheet with a silicone baking mat or parchment paper. 
04    Working with one piece at a time, fold the dough in half lengthwise and seal the edges with the heel of your hand. Flatten, then repeat the fold and seal motions. With the seam side down on the work surface, gently roll the dough into a log about 16 inches long. Place the logs on the lined baking sheet spacing them at least a few inches apart. Cover with greased plastic wrap and let rise for 30 minutes. Drape gently with well greased plastic wrap, making sure it does not anchor to the edges of the pan, and refrigerate overnight. 
05    Before baking, let the loaves rest covered at room temperature for 90 minutes before baking. Place a baking stone on the middle shelf in the oven, if using, and preheat the oven to 425° F. 
06    Just before baking, remove the plastic wrap. Slash the loaves diagonally with a sharp knife. Brush lightly with the egg wash. Spray the loaves lightly with water. Place the baking sheet on the baking stone. Let bake 10 minutes, then reduce the oven temperature to 400°F. Bake 10 minutes more, or until the loaves are golden brown and an instant read thermometer inserted into the center of the baguette registers 190° F. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool slightly before serving. 
07    Notes:
       If you work during the week and are relegated to weekend baking, start the pre-ferment on Friday night. You will make the dough and shape the loaves on Saturday, let rest overnight, and then bake on Sunday.
       The orange juice in the dough helps temper the whole wheat flavor – you won’t taste any of the orange in the finished product. 

Source 

adapted from King Arthur Flour’s Whole Grain Baking Book 
Share On         https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8682/16175404966_7623b9f3a6_c.jpg 


START RECIPE


Homemade Spinach Wraps 
74 

Yield about 8 wraps 

Being a working mom certainly has its pros and cons, just as being a stay at home mom does. I know that it’s the right thing for our family and definitely the right fit for me personally, but there are times when the balancing act can be more taxing than others. Last year when Andrew started kindergarten I had more than a little on my plate. I was finishing residency, starting fellowship, and studying every free moment to prepare for taking the mother of all exams, my residency boards. I hated that I was so preoccupied during my little buddy’s first few weeks of kindergarten. It especially upset me that I didn’t have time to pack his lunch, or that when I did, it was far from creative. 

Eventually after things had settled down at work and I started to come out of my post-exam fog, I got into a better routine and was able to start making lunches. I even branched out beyond the two sandwiches we had been alternating between all year until that point. One thing I made often was veggie wraps – just random veggies from the fridge, some cheese, and a spinach wrap to pull it all together. I loved them because they were so easy and Andrew just loved them, period. However, one glance at the ingredient list was enough to stop me from buying the wraps again. Andrew kept ing for “the green wraps” so I knew I needed to find a homemade alternative. 

I haven’t bought tortillas in ages since learning to make those  so I figured a few s could make some passable spinach wraps. As it turns out, this worked amazingly well. A whole grain, non-processed version with only six ingredients is definitely something I can get on board with. Andrew is happy to have his fave green wraps back and I’m happy knowing they aren’t full of junk. Just as with nearly every homemade bread that I make, I keep a stash of these in the freezer so that we have them around whenever we need them. 

I’m happy that this year we are into a great routine and I’m enjoying making school lunches every day.  Just a reminder – I am doing a lunch-a-day feature on Instagram throughout the month of August, sharing school lunch ideas most days as well as some work lunches scattered in. If you’re looking to get out of a lunch rut, especially where school lunches are concerned, this might help provide some inspiration. I hope you’ll follow along! 

(*The lunchbox pictured above is this one from Pottery Barn Kids. I can’t say enough good things about it! After wrangling endless reusable snack bags, storage containers and lids all through last school year, this has made packing lunches infinitely easier.) 
Ingredients 

3 cups white whole wheat (or all-purpose) flour 
2 tsp. baking powder 
1 heaping tsp. salt 
½ cup chopped frozen spinach, thoroughly drained 
5 tbsp. refined coconut oil (or unsalted butter, softened) 
2/3 t0 1 cup water, divided 

Directions 

01    Combine the flour, baking powder, salt, and spinach in the bowl of a food processor. Pulse thoroughly to finely chop the spinach. 
02    Add the coconut oil or butter. Pulse the mixture until the mixture is crumbly, about 5 seconds.  Scrape down the sides of the bowl.  (If you don’t have a food processor, this same effect can be achieved with a pastry cutter or two forks.) With the food processor running, add 2/3 cup of the water in a slow steady stream until the dough just forms a cohesive ball. If needed, add additional water 1 to 2 tablespoons at a time until the dough comes together. 
03    Knead for 30 seconds more, until the dough is tacky.  If the dough is too sticky, add a bit more flour.
       Transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and divide into 8 equal pieces (a kitchen scale helps ensure equal sized pieces).  Cover with a clean kitchen towel and let rest for 10 minutes. 
04    Heat a large skillet over medium heat.  Working with one dough ball at a time and keeping the others covered, pat the ball into a disk. Dust lightly with flour and roll the dough into a very thin circle, about 10 inches in diameter. 
05    Carefully transfer the shaped dough disk to the heated skillet and cook each side for about 10-20 seconds, just until bubbles form and are lightly browned.  Do not overcook or the wraps will be too stiff.  Immediately transfer the cooked wraps to a plate and cover with a damp kitchen towel.  Repeat this process with the remaining dough balls, lowering the heat as needing to prevent burning. Stack on top of each other as they finish cooking.  The steam and moisture that collect when the wraps are stacked together will help keep them tender.
       Store in an airtight bag in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, or freeze. If the wraps are stiff before use, microwave briefly (about 20-30 seconds) to make them more malleable. 

Source 

adapted from Confections of a Foodie Bride 
Share On         https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3915/14613384213_9ea86e84a0_z_d.jpg 



START RECIPE


Multigrain Bread 
52 

Yield 2 loaves 

In further evidence that I am getting older and becoming a real grown up, I now like and voluntarily eat multigrain bread.  As a kid, I have vivid memories of my making myself sandwiches with various degrees of discontent depending on what bread we had available.  The only thing I ever wanted was white bread, the softer and whiter the better.  If wheat was the only option available I could usually tolerate it.  But man, if it had any kind of seed or nut in it?  Forget about it.  Of course if that was really all we had and I was truly hungry, I would improvise, meaning I would sit for several minutes, picking out every seed and nut I could find, leaving dozens of tiny holes in each slice and a resulting bread with questionable integrity.  My dad would laugh and laugh at me.  If only he could see me now. 

A few weeks ago, we had lunch with our good friends and they made these amazing sandwiches using a multigrain bread.  I came home wanting 1) to eat that sandwich every day forever, and 2) to find a recipe for a good multigrain bread.  I didn’t have to look very long or hard, because I recalled seeing this recipe in the Bouchon Bakery cookbook and decided to give it a try.  This ended up being just exactly what I was hoping for – a nice, hearty multigrain bread with a golden crust on the outside but still tender on the inside, the perfect consistency for making a good sandwich.  It’s also incredible toasted with an over easy egg on top.  I’ll be adding this to the list of homemade breads I have to keep on hand at all times in the freezer.  (In case you were wondering, that list includes baguettes, sourdough, burger buns, and now this.)  And I didn’t even pick out any seeds. 
Ingredients 

For the soaker:  
33 grams (6 tbsp. plus 1 tsp.) old-fashioned oats 
33 grams (3 tbsp. plus 2 tsp.) sesame seeds 
33 grams (¼ cup) hulled sunflower seeds 
33 grams (¼ cup plus 1 tsp.) flaxseeds 
33 grams (3 tbsp.) quinoa 
100 grams (7 tbsp.) cold water 

For the dough:  
311 grams (2 cups plus 3½ tbsp.) all-purpose flour 
89 grams (¾ cup) whole wheat flour 
44 grams (¼ cup plus 2 tbsp.) rye flour 
3 grams (Scant 1 tsp.) instant yeast 
89 grams (3.1 oz.) sourdough starter* 
311 grams (1 cup plus 5 tbsp.) water at 75° F 
10 grams (1¾ tsp.) fine sea salt 
1 egg white mixed with 1 tbsp. water, for brushing 
Directions 

01    To make the soaker, combine the oats and all the sides in a bowl.  Stir in the water until evenly combined.  Let sit at room temperature for 1 hour. 
02    To make the dough, combine the all-purpose, whole wheat and rye flours as well as the yeast in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a dough hook.  Mix briefly to combine.  Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients and add the starter and the water.  Mix on low speed for 3 minutes.  Sprinkle the salt over the top.  Continue to mix on low speed for 20 minutes.  Add in the seed mixture and any remaining water in the bowl, and mix on low speed just until evenly incorporated into the dough.  Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled bowl, turning once to coat.  Cover with plastic wrap or a clean kitchen towel and let rise for 1 hour or until about doubled in bulk. 
03    Place a baking stone in the oven on an upper-middle rack, and place a metal baking dish on a lower rack.  Preheat the oven to 460° F. (The oven preheats for a long time.  This is important to adequately heat the baking stone and ensure a consistent oven temperature for baking.)  Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface.  Divide the dough in half and form each half into a rough oval shape.  Let rest for 15 minutes (no need to cover).  Shape the dough into batards.  Take a rimmed baking sheet and flip it so the bottom side is facing up.  Cover with a piece of parchment paper.  Place the shaped loaves onto the parchment paper.  Cover the loaves with a clean kitchen towel or loosely with plastic wrap.  Let rise once more, 1 hour or until the when the dough is lightly pressed with a finger, the impression remains. 
04    Just before baking the bread, measure out 3-4 cups of hot water.  Set aside.  Uncover the loaves.  With a sharp knife, make three shallow scores in the top of each loaf at an angle.  Brush the loaves lightly with the egg wash.  Remove the baking stone from the oven and carefully slide the sheet of parchment with the loaves onto the baking stone.  Return the stone with the dough to the oven.  With caution, pour the hot water into the baking pan set on the lower rack.  This creates steam to help give the crust a nice texture.  Bake for 20 minutes or until the internal temperature of the loaves is 200-210° F.  Transfer to a wire rack and let cool. 
05    *Even though I already have sourdough starter, I decided to make the Bouchon liquid levain for this recipe just out of curiosity.  It is a bit involved and smells quite…pungent…in the process, but the results were great and I would recommend it if you are so inclined.  Otherwise, you can use other fed starter that you have on hand.  Instructions for the Bouchon levain follow: 
        (Timing-wise, this is best started in the morning.)  To make the starter, combine 250 grams all-purpose flour and 250 grams of 75° F water in a plastic or glass container and stir until evenly combined.  Cover loosely.  Place in an area about 72° F.  Let stand for 24 hours. Some bubbles will appear, indicating the wild yeast that has been incorporated.
        To feed, combine 250 grams of flour and 250 grams of water in a new plastic or glass container.  Stir in 150 grams of the starter, and discard the rest. Cover loosely and let sit for 12 hours.
        Repeat the feeding process as described above every 12 hours for three days, for six total feedings.
        The levain will be ready to use on the morning of the fifth day of the process, so to bake bread on a Saturday, start the levain on a Tuesday. 

Share On         http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2825/10185904086_854a1a4abf_z.jpg 



START RECIPE

Japanese Beef and Rice Bowl 
July 17, 2012 
Japanese Beef and Rice Bowl (Gyudon) 
This Japanese Beef and Rice Bowl that I first made two years ago in San Francisco continues to be a standby weeknight dish. It's a very simple recipe with a delicious sauce using sake, mirin, sesame oil, and soy sauce. In this updated recipe, the sauce has been improved, with a better consistency and deeper sesame flavor. And the leftovers taste just as good, if not better! 

Excuse me for a second, while I rhapsodize about fast food in Asia. 

As frequent travelers know, the 1 cardinal sin when visiting a new place is eating at fast food chains (unless you are in a developing country and just need a clean public restroom.) I have had bad luck when breaking this rule. Food poisoning from a Beijing KFC, for example. I have also had good luck. On one of those painfully humid summer mornings in Shanghai, I escaped into an air-conditioned McDonald's and discovered the joys of Sichuan-spiced chicken sandwiches. 

Then there is my relationship with Yoshinoya. I can't speak for the quality of Yoshinoya's chains in the US (one in NYC, the rest mainly in around LA). But while living in Beijing and Shanghai, every couple of weeks I would succumb to my immense craving for their beef bowl, or gyudon. Even if it meant eating in a dingy mall basement with ambient arcade noises, alongside mega hoards of teens. 

While Yoshinoya China's beef bowl paled in comparison to anything in Japan, it was my guilty pleasure. The succulent paper-thin fatty beef and onions doused in in a soy sauce-mirin mixture, with all the flavor dripping down to coat the rice, was hard to resist. And it was less than $2. 

Honestly, I really should have made this more at home and enjoyed my surroundings more. Gyudon's incredibly easy, as long as you're able to find fatty cuts of beef and slice it very thinly against the grain (or have the butcher do it for you). Tender cuts with a lot of marbling are ideal. The sauce is just soy sauce, mirin, and sake. Some cooks will replace the sake with water. I like to add a few teaspoons of sesame oil for a deeper flavor. 

japanese-beef-and-rice-bowl-1 
And while Yoshinoya is the most ubiquitous purveyor of gyudon, my favorite chain version actually comes from Mos Burger, which has outlets around Japan and SE Asia. Their Yakiniku Rice Burger is basically gyudon deconstructed and reassembled, with the rice acting as buns. It's tiny, exactly 3 mouths of beefy bliss. 

But replicating rice burgers at home is a bit harder. 

Japanese Beef and Rice Bowl 
___________________________________ 

Japanese Beef and Rice Bowl 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1 large onion, thinly sliced 
1 pound marbled beef such as skirt steak, thinly sliced against the grain 
2 tablespoons mirin 
2 tablespoons sake 
1/3 cup soy sauce 
3 teaspoons sesame oil 
1 teaspoon white sesame seeds 
Instructions 

Prepare the rice as you normally would in a rice cooker or pot while you prepare the beef. 
In a large sauté pan, heat the vegetable oil over medium heat. Sauté the onions until soft, about 3 minutes. Push the onions to the side of the pan and add the beef to the middle. Sauté the beef for 1 to 2 minutes, until the red is mostly gone. 
Add the mirin and sake and stir for 1 or 2 minutes while the alcohol lifts up the nice brown bits from the pan. Add the soy sauce and sesame oil and let simmer until sauce is reduced by half, about 5 minutes. 
Serve hot over the rice and sprinkle sesame seeds on top. 
Recipe first posted April 8, 2010. Updated July 17, 2012. 

In Blog Tags Beef, Japanese, Recipes 
Share 
 10 Likes 
← General Tso's TofuThai Red Curry Mussels → 



START RECIPE

General Tso's Chicken 
August 29, 2011 
general-tsos-chicken-high 
This recipe for General Tso's chicken has been the most popular on this site since I first posted it in 2009. Month after month it continues to be the most viewed and searched for recipe here.  I love that so many of you, presumably, have visited on a mission to replicate this tasty dish from a favorite take-out. 

Over the past few months, I've been testing and retesting this recipe for my cookbook, and want to share a new revised version. I've loved all your feedback and incorporated some changes that'll make this General Tso's even better. The sauce, for example, has a couple of new ingredients to round out the tomato base. 

The biggest improvement is in the frying process. The previous recipe resulted in really nice crispy chicken, but I think this new recipe one-ups its predecessor. After countless hours frying chicken in front of the stove, I've found that the key marinade ingredient for crispy chicken is...egg whites, which allow the cornstarch to adhere to the meat, without lending too much of an eggy flavor. And, as one commenter suggested, tossing the cornstarch with a little salt and pepper is great for adding more flavor to the fried chicken. You can also take a few extra minutes to fry the chicken again for another 30 seconds, an optional step to get very crispy chicken, identical to the take-out kind. 

(Update: If you've enjoyed this General Tso's Chicken recipe, check out many more Chinese restaurant favorites in my new cookbook The Chinese Takeout Cookbook: Quick and Easy Dishes to Prepare at Home.) 

-------------------------------------------- 

Almost nobody in Hunan has ever heard of General Tso's Chicken, the most famous Hunan dish in America. Like many other American-Chinese favorites, the roots to China are vague but interesting. 

You may know the dish as General Tsuo's, or Tzo's or Tao's or some other variation. You couldn't really pronounce the name, but order it anyway at Panda Garden because of its addictiveness. Who cares if it isn't really Chinese food, like your ABC friend hinted? 

General Tso's Chicken became popular in America via some enterprisingly Taiwanese chefs who opened Hunan restaurants in New York in the 1970s. Hunan cuisine is traditionally very spicy, full of smoky chilis and pickled vegetables. But to appeal to American diners, the chefs started deep-frying, and sweetening the sauces. They improved upon each other's crispy chicken dishes until they got a crunchy, sweet, sour, and mildly spicy coating. You can read more about the history in Fuchsia Dunlop's NYT article, or Jennifer 8. Lee's The Fortune Cookie Chronicles: both writers trace the original General Tso's back to Taiwan. 

general-tso-1 
I first tried making the Taiwanese version from Dunlop's Revolutionary Chinese Cookbook: Recipes from Hunan Province. But the recipe calls for starch in the marinade and sauce, instead of as an outside coating, which doesn't create a create the crunchiness I was expecting. I wasn't the only one who was disappointed by the original version. On trying the chicken dish in Taiwan, Jennifer 8. Lee wrote, The dominant flavor was soy sauce. That was followed by chopped garlic and a kick from spicy chili peppers. The chicken was appropriately chewy, but there was no crispy, fried batter coating. Where was the sweetness? The tanginess? Instead, it had a strong salty flavor. 

The older version is like the stodgy artiste who refuses to waver to popular opinion. Which is respectable. But there's a reason Americanized General Tso's is so good. It's brash, super crisp, and sweet. Like pop music, it just hooks you. 

So here is my altered General Tso's Chicken after cooking in many, many times. I prefer to use boneless chicken thighs instead of chicken breast for a juicier bite. (Dark meat is juicier and much more tender than white meat, and contrary to widespread belief, not much higher in fat.) Chicken stock adds a bit more flavor, but if you don’t have any handy feel free to substitute water. Sauce may taste a little tomato-y on its own, but trust me, mixed with the fried chicken it will taste positively delicious. 

The sauce, with tomato paste, chicken broth, vinegar, and hoisin sauce, thickens up quite nicely in the wok. It’s sweet but not overly so, with a mild kick and smoky flavor from the chilis and a good amount of tanginess. Meanwhile, the cornstarch coating results in a brash, proudly crisp exterior. It may not be authentically Hunan, but there’s a reason it continues to be such a beloved dish in the U.S. 

_______________________________ 

General Tso's Chicken 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken thighs, sliced into 1-inch cubes 
1 1/2 cups cornstarch 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
3 cups peanut or vegetable oil for frying, plus 1 tablespoon for stir-frying 
8 dried whole red chilis, or substitute 1/4 teaspoon dried red chili flakes 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon white sesame seeds, for garnish 
Scallions, green parts thinly sliced, for garnish 
Marinade 

1 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 egg whites 
Sauce: 

1/4 cup chicken stock, or substitute water 
1 1/2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon rice vinegar 
1 teaspoon hoisin sauce 
1 teaspoon chili paste 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
Instructions 

Prepare the marinade: In a large bowl, combine the soy sauce, rice wine, and egg whites. Coat the chicken to the marinade mixture and let sit for 10 minutes. 
Prepare the sauce: In a small bowl, combine the chicken stock, tomato paste, sugar, soy sauce, rice vinegar, hoisin sauce, chili paste, sesame oil, sugar, and the 1 teaspoon of cornstarch. Stir until the sugar and cornstarch are dissolved. Set the sauce aside. 
In a large bowl or deep plate, toss the 1 1/2 cups cornstarch with the salt and pepper. Coat the marinated chicken in the cornstarch and shake off any excess before frying. 
Heat the 3 cups of peanut or vegetable oil in your wok until it registers 350°F on an instant-read oil thermometer. Working in 2 or 3 batches, add the first batch of chicken cubes and fry until golden brown on the outside and cooked through, about 4 to 5 minutes. Remove the chicken with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Repeat with the rest of the chicken. 
Drain the oil into a heatproof container and save for discarding. Wipe the wok with a paper towel to remove any brown bits, but don’t wash. 
Reheat the wok or skillet over medium-high heat. Add another 1 tablespoon of oil and swirl to coat the base and sides. Add the dried chilis and garlic to the wok and stir-fry until just fragrant, about 20 seconds. Pour in the sauce mixture and stir until thickened, about 1 to 2 minutes. 
Return the chicken to the wok and stir well to coat with sauce. Transfer the chicken to a serving dish. Garnish with white sesame seeds and scallions. Serve with white rice and vegetables. 
Recipe first published March 3, 2009. Updated August 30, 2011. 



In Recipes Tags American Chinese, Chicken, Chinese, Global Chinese, Recipes, Favorites 
Share 
 98 Likes 
← Hong Kong Local Foods PosterChinese Corn and Cabbage Soup → 



START RECIPE

Fried Eggs with Kimchi 
February 29, 2012 
fried-eggs-kimchi 
Happy Leap Day! 

This morning, I had planned get up and to try cooking something totally new. I mean, isn't this supposed to be the magical day for trying things you normally wouldn't do? (Or maybe, just maybe, I  too much TV.) I racked my brain. Haggis? Squab? Jello mold? Croquembouche? By the time I had gone through a list of possibilities, it was that iffy time between breakfast and lunch. I was getting hungry, and finally settled on adding a twist to something I make about 10 times a month. 

Fried eggs. Or more specifically, fried eggs with oyster sauce. It's pure comfort food, and something I've  raved about periodically on this blog but have never formalized into a recipe. I  fry up the eggs until the whites are all set but the yolks are still runny, transfer them to a bowl with rice or noodles, add an oyster sauce/soy sauce combo, and mix everything up. It's incredibly addictive, either as a slightly hedonistic weekday breakfast or a super-fast lunch or dinner. 

(Necessary disclaimer: I personally prefer my eggs slightly undercooked, and almost always buy free-range eggs. But definitely cook the eggs until the yolks are set if you feel more comfortable, or if you're pregnant.) 

Over the hundreds of times I've made fried eggs in my life, I've developed a few tricks for getting them to the perfect crispness without over-browning the bottoms and edges, or having them stick to the pan: 

Crack the eggs into a bowl first. This way, you can pick out any stray pieces of eggshell. Plus, the eggs stay together better when you add them all at once. 
Add the eggs to a hot wok or pan. The oil should be glistening before you add the eggs, so they won't stick and so the edges will begin to crisp almost immediately. 
After about 1 minute, lower the heat to medium. This way, the egg whites have a chance to fully set before the bottoms over-brown. 
The egg whites around the yolks have the hardest time cooking because that part is usually the thickest. Use a fork or edge of a spatula to poke holes around the outside of the yolks so the uncooked egg whites on top can seep through, make contact with the pan, and cook. 
The only difference between these eggs and the ones I normally make is that I chopped up some kimchi and spooned it onto the egg whites as they were setting. But since I keep talking about how great and simple these eggs are, and for whatever reason had never posted the recipe, here it is. 

Croquembouche may have to wait for another day. 

fried-eggs-kimchi-2 
__________________________ 

Fried Eggs with Kimchi 
Serves 1 

Ingredients 

2 teaspoons oyster sauce* 
2 teaspoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
2 large eggs 
1/4 cup chopped kimchi 
1 scallion, thinly sliced or shredded 
Instructions 

In a small bowl, combine the oyster sauce and soy sauce and stir until well-mixed. Set aside. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat. Crack the eggs into a small bowl, then once the oil is hot enough, carefully pour the eggs into the hot oil. Spoon the chopped kimchi over the egg whites as they are setting so they get cooked into the eggs. After 1 minute, lower the heat to medium so the bottoms get crisp without over-browning while the egg yolks are still setting. Cook for another 2 to 3 minutes to your desired level of doneness. (If the egg whites around the yolk are taking a while to set, use a fork to poke holes around the outside of the yolks. This way, the uncooked egg whites on top can seep through, make contact with the pan, and get cooked.) 
With a wide spatula, carefully transfer the eggs to a plate. Spoon the oyster sauce mixture of the eggs and top with scallions. Serve alone or with rice on the side. 
Note: This dish can be made completely vegetarian by using vegetarian oyster sauce, which gets its flavoring from mushrooms. 

In Recipes Tags Eggs, Recipes, Spicy, Vegetarian 
Share 
 6 Likes 
← Vietnamese Chicken CurrySpicy Hunan Beef with Cumin → 



START RECIPE

Dan Dan Noodles 
August 8, 2011 
dan-dan-noodles-2 
Dan dan noodles is one of those quintessential Sichuan dishes that you must try at least once if you're a fan of anything spicy. The chili-laced vinegar and sesame sauce is quite possibly one of the finest sauces that ground pork or beef can ever be cooked with. 

Now, if you were to have dan dan noodles in Sichuan province, the noodles would come swimming in a chili-laced broth that is almost impossible for mortals (non-Sichuan-natives) to slurp. I like to do a less saucy version that tones the heat down slightly while still maintaining flavor. The noodles in this recipe are spicy enough for someone who doesn't mind a little heat in their food. But please feel free to adjust the amount of chili oil to your preferences. And slurping is, of course, encouraged. 

The first time I ever had dan dan mian was years ago in New York's East Village. It was one of those insanely hot and muggy July days, and my friend Shar and I were walking on St. Mark's Place, sweaty even in tank tops and skirts. 

Where do you want to have lunch?, I ed. 

Anywhere with AC, was the reply. 

We ducked into the St. Mark's branch of Grand Sichuan and sure enough, there was a generous amount of AC, along with a particularly surly waitress. We ordered quickly just to get her to go away. 

We ate about 4 or 5 dishes, but I don't remember any except the dan dan noodles and cold cucumber salad. I remember the dan dan noodles because it was one of the spiciest dishes had ever tasted, at that point. I remember the cucumbers because, despite also being spicy, they tamed the heat in my mouth from the dan dan noodles. 

I gulped about 4 or 5 glasses of water during the meal. The food was actually pretty good, but I, being a newbie to Sichuan food, couldn't fully appreciate the complexity of the Sichuan peppercorn. Years later, having had many 4-alarm Sichuan meals, I actually miss and crave the mala sensation (numbing spiciness) if I don't eat Sichuan for a week or more. 

You can find dan dan mian at almost all Sichuan restaurants. Some people have it as an appetizer, others have it during the meal instead of rice. (I, for one, always get rice if I'm also ordering dishes bathed in a spicy sauce, like mapo tofu or mouth-watering chicken. Some friends of mine don't mind piling heat on top of heat, those brave fools.) 

Dan dan noodles are also easy to make at home. Even the American home, now that the Sichuan peppercorn ban is lifted. Of course, this dish can always be toned down by adding less Sichuan pepper, but trust me...mala heat is addictive. Just make sure to have some water by your side. 

__________________________ 

Dan Dan Noodles 
Serves 4 as part of a multi-course meal, or 2 to 3 as a single dish 

Ingredients 

8 ounces ground pork or beef 
1 tablespoon peanut oil 
2 teaspoons minced garlic (about 2 cloves) 
1 teaspoon minced ginger 
2 scallions, white and green parts chopped 
2 tablespoons chopped Sichuan preserved vegetable (optional) 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1/2 teaspoon salt, or salt to taste 
8 ounces dried Chinese egg noodles 
1 handful dry-roasted peanuts, finely chopped 
Sauce: 

1/2 cup chicken stock or water 
1/4 cup soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese sesame paste or tahini 
2 tablespoon Chinese black rice vinegar, or substitute good quality balsamic vinegar 
3 tablespoons chili oil (adjust according to your tolerance of spiciness) 
1 tablespoon sesame oil 
2 teaspoons sugar 
1/2 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper 
Instructions 

Bring a large pot of water to boil and cook the noodles according to package instructions. Drain the noodles, rinse under cold water, and drain again. Transfer the noodles to a serving dish. 
Prepare the sauce: In a medium bowl, whisk together the chicken stock, soy sauce, sesame paste, vinegar, chili oil, sesame oil, sugar, and Sichuan pepper. Pour the sauce over the noodles and toss so the sauce is evenly distributed. Set aside. 
Heat a large wok or skillet over medium-high heat. Add the oil and swirl to coat the base and sides. Add the garlic, ginger, white parts of the scallions, and optional Sichuan preserved vegetable and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the meat and stir-fry until the meat is a little crispy on the outside and no longer pink. Add rice wine to deglaze the pan. Season with salt to taste. 
Spoon the cooked meat mixture over the noodles, sprinkle the chopped scallions greens and chopped peanuts on top, and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Chinese, Noodles, Pork, Recipes, Sichuan 
Share 
 12 Likes 
← Fu Run in FlushingChicken Tikka Masala → 



START RECIPE

Coconut Chicken Adobo 
May 2, 2012 
coconut-chicken-adobo-1 
My love affair with chicken adobo dates back to 2005. A friend who was born and raised in Guam had made dinner one night and served up a rustic-looking and extremely fragrant chicken dish. I had never eaten or even heard of chicken adobo before. But one bite of the juicy dark meat with all its tanginess, sweetness, and soy-sauce-savoriness and I was hooked. 

I begged my friend teach it to me the following night. And then proceeded to make chicken adobo at least once a week for the next 2 years. 

Over the years, I've made chicken adobo countless times, ing it along the way until I found a go-to version, changing it up with pork on a few occasions. But it wasn't until I went to Purple Yam, a Filipino restaurant in Brooklyn, a couple of months ago that I tried coconut chicken adobo. The sauce was darkened by soy sauce, very tangy and garlicky, a tiny bit spicy, with a faint coconut flavor. It was delicious, and it took a lot of restraint for my friends and I to not put in another order. 

Now, there are countless ways to cook chicken adobo in the Philippines, and everyone who makes it has a strong opinion of how to cook it and what should go in it. Should there be coconut milk and/or soy sauce, and if so, how much? Should the meat become crispy via deep-frying, pan-searing, or broiling, or not even get crisp at all? And what about sugar? Even with vinegar, the one constant sauce ingredient, should it be coconut sap, rice, cider, or white distilled? 

Of course, after the dinner at Purple Yam, I couldn't not try coconut chicken adobo at home. For the sauce, I decided to make it more coconut-ty by using almost a full can of coconut milk, which gave the braising liquid just enough sweetness for my tastes without needing to add sugar. I used fish sauce for its earthy flavor (though soy sauce can be a substitute) and opted for a light amount of garlic. I also added some paprika and cayenne for a subtle smokiness and color. 

I 've always seared the chicken at the beginning of cooking, but this time I pan-seared it at the end. It requires a little more effort, as you need to dry the chicken well or else the oil will spit, but the extra crispy skin is well worth it. (You can also transfer the chicken to a roasting pan and crisp it up under a broiler.) 

I love the coconut flavor from this dish, and will definitely use it in place of my regular chicken adobo recipe from time to time.  Try this out, and let me know how you like it. And if you have your own way of making chicken adobo, especially if it's an old family recipe, please share in the comments! 

__________________________ 

Coconut Chicken Adobo 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

2 1/2 pounds (about 8 pieces) bone-in chicken thighs with skin 
1/2 cup white vinegar 
2 cups water 
2 tablespoons fish sauce, or substitute soy sauce 
3 cloves garlic 
1 bay leaf 
3/4 cup thick coconut milk 
1/2 teaspoon ground paprika 
1/2 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil. 
Instructions 

In a Dutch oven, pot, or deep sauté pan, combine the chicken with the vinegar, water, fish sauce, garlic and bay leaf. (The liquid should almost cover the chicken. If not, add a bit more water.) Bring the liquid to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Allow the chicken to simmer, uncovered, for 25 to 30 minutes, until tender but not falling off the bone. 
With a slotted spoon, remove the chicken from the braising liquid and transfer to a plate. Blot very well with paper towels. Turn the heat up and reduce until the sauce is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon (about 10 minutes more). Stir in the coconut milk, paprika, cayenne, and pepper. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat. Add the oil and swirl to coat the base. Add the chicken pieces and sear until golden brown and crispy, about 2 minutes on each side (carefully, if there is excess moisture from the chicken that may make the oil spit.) Return the chicken to the sauce to turn so they are coated all around. Transfer the chicken and sauce to a large serving platter or individual plates. Serve hot with a generous amount of rice on the side. 
In Recipes Tags Chicken, Filipino, Recipes, Favorites 
Share 
 12 Likes 
← Kung Pao ChickenDumplings and Wontons Class - Spring Seasonal Session 



START RECIPE

Coca-Cola Chicken Wings 
June 10, 2012 
Coca-Cola Chicken Wings 
Here's a goody from the archives. A number of you have tried this recipe for Coca-cola Chicken wings that I first posted in March 2011. You wouldn't guess just how delicious it is based on the simple ingredients. In this recipe that's a favorite of home cooks in China, Cola-Cola and soy sauce meld to form a great sweet and savory glaze for the chicken.  You get a great caramelized flavor without the work! 

I don't know exactly when or how Coca-cola chicken wings became a Chinese dish, but it's a baby compared to everything that originated back when dynasties existed. Heck, many people don't even realize it's a Chinese dish, much less a common one. I have never seen it printed on a restaurant menu or in an English-language Chinese cookbook. It does, however, appear from time to time in Chinese-language cookbooks and on cooking shows, sometimes involving as few as three ingredients. 

In China, Coke and other sodas hold a higher prestige than they do in the US. About 5 years ago, when I first visited Beijing, some relatives took me out to a pretty lavish restaurant for my first Peking duck experience. After drink orders were taken, the head waiter returned to the table with a wine cart. With a flourish, he brandished a bottle in his right arm for inspection, which, for course, turned out to be Coke instead Bordeaux. 

I have also attended banquets and Chinese New Year dinners where bottles of 7-Up and Pepsi were sitting like centerpieces in the middle of white table cloth-covered tables. And I have gone up and down the wine aisles of Chinese supermarkets, only to find that it was almost impossible to buy just a bottle of wine. You always got a special gift with purchase. Domestic reds and whites were often packaged in cellophane with bottles of...you guessed it...Coke or Sprite. (That is, if they weren't already packaged with imitation Nalgenes, thermoses, rice bowls, or even beach blankets.) 

This is all to say that the cult of Coke in China is pretty strong. Which paves the way for Coca-Cola chicken wings to become a popular dish for home cooks. The preparation method is very similar to that of soy-sauce chicken, a common Cantonese dish. (I wouldn't be surprised if this dish was actually created because some person, or some million persons, who figured that adding Coke was a good way to change up their soy-sauce chicken.) 

Cantonese soy sauce chicken wings are braised with soy sauce, garlic, and ginger, and occasionally cinnamon and star anise. For Coca-Cola chicken wings, we just use soy sauce, rice wine, and Coke in the braising liquid. That's it. What you end up with, after 15 to 20 minutes of braising, is a nice syrupy glaze. It's not overwhelmingly sweet, or overwhelmingly salty. It tastes a tiny bit like Coke, but even that is very subtle. Toward the end, I add some chopped scallions and freshly ground black pepper to enhance the flavor, but really, this minimalist dish is still perfectly fine without aromatics. 

Even better than using regular Coke is Mexican Coke, which uses real sugar, if you can find it in your local grocery store or bodega. 

_____________________________ 

Coca-Cola Chicken Wings 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

2 pounds chicken wings, wings and drummettes separated 
1/4 cup soy sauce 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
2 tablespoons dry sherry or Chinese rice wine 
3/4 cup Coca-Cola (not diet or anything flavored!) 
2 scallions, chopped 
A few pinches of freshly ground black pepper 
Instructions 

Put the chicken wings in a large bowl and pour half of the soy sauce on top. Turn the wings so they are well-coated and allow them to marinate for 10 to 15 minutes at room temperature. 
Heat a wok or large deep skillet over medium-high heat. Sear the chicken wings until they are golden brown on each side but not cooked through, about 3 minutes each side. Pour in the other half of the soy sauce, the sherry, and the Coke and bring the liquid to a simmer. Simmer the wings uncovered for 15 to 20 minutes, until the liquid is reduced to a glaze. 
Season the chicken with black pepper. Transfer the chicken to a plate, garnish with scallions, and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Appetizers, Chicken, Chinese, Recipes, Favorites 
Share 
 63 Likes 
← Third Sunday in JuneZucchini Noodles with Pan-fried Tofu → 



START RECIPE

Cold Sesame Noodles 
July 28, 2011 
Cold Sesame Noodles 
Last night I had the pleasure of being a guest chef at the Ted and Amy Supper Club in Fort Greene. The theme was Tiki Summer Feast, so Kara set up long tables in her lovely backyard for the 12 guests and cranked up some tiki lounge music. I did a variety of shareable plates, including hoisin wings, Chinese barbecued ribs, and potstickers filled with shredded braised duck leg (which turned out to be a huge favorite!) 

The meatless dish I served was a big bowl of cold sesame noodles, which also got emptied pretty quickly.  I first blogged about these noodles last summer and have made them every few weeks since. A quick dish that requires minimal cooking (just boiling the pasta), it's a lifesaver during dinner parties, when the oven and stove top are needed for everything else. But it's also a filling and tasty dinner for one or two people. 

Since there's no end in sight for hot, sticky weather, I thought I would re-share this for your summer night meals, in or out of doors. If you're not vegetarian and want to fancy it up, try adding some prosciutto, bacon bits...or even shredded duck! 

Cold sesame noodles are essential for the summer. They make great picnic food. They make great sides for cookouts. They are the same savory-sweet kind you get from the Chinese takeout, with less grease and no MSG. And they require very little prep time and don't even have to be reheated out of the fridge (within a reasonable number of days, of course.) 

For the noodles themselves, I like to use Chinese egg noodles, soba, or spaghetti. They should be round, not too thin or too thick (the width of a spaghetti strang is perfect.) I find that regular all-wheat Chinese noodles are usually too spongey for this sauce, rendering the dish into somewhat of a gloppy mess. Same with rice noodles. Egg noodles, soba, or spaghetti hold their firmness the best, and allow the sauce to coat the noodles instead of seeping in. 

I also like to sauté my garlic and ginger just a little, before tossing it in with the sauce. I'd rather have fragrant garlic and ginger instead of raw, and that extra step of sautéeing for 30 seconds makes a huge difference. 


(Check out my new book The Chinese Takeout Cookbook for many more Chinese restaurant favorites!) 

_________________________ 

Cold Sesame Noodles 
Serves 4 to 6 

Ingredients 

12 ounces dried spaghetti or Chinese egg noodles 
2 tablespoons peanut oil 
2 teaspoons minced garlic 
2 teaspoons grated ginger 
1 cucumber, peeled and julienned 
2 carrot, peeled and julienned 
2 teaspoons white sesame seeds 
2 scallions, green parts only, thinly sliced 
Sauce: 

3 tablespoons Chinese sesame paste (or 3 tablespoons tahini with an extra teaspoon of sesame oil) 
2 tablespoons smooth peanut butter 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon sesame oil 
2 tablespoons Chinese rice vinegar 
2 teaspoons chili paste 
2 tablespoons sugar 
½ teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper (optional) 
Instructions 

Bring a pot of water to boil and cook egg noodles or spaghetti until al dente, or the minimum amount of time according to package instructions. Drain immediately, rinse with cold water, and drain again. Toss with 1 tablespoon of the peanut oil and set aside. 
Heat the other tablespoon of peanut oil in a small pan over medium heat. Gently cook the minced garlic and grated ginger until just fragrant, about 30 to 40 seconds. Remove from the heat and set aside. 
Prepare the sauce: In a medium bowl, combine the sesame paste, peanut butter, soy sauce, sesame oil, rice vinegar, chili paste, sugar, and optional Sichuan pepper. Add 3 tablespoons of water and whisk until the mixture is smooth. Stir in the cooked garlic and ginger. 
Pour the sauce over the noodles, add the cucumbers and carrots, and toss. Transfer to large bowl or deep serving dish and sprinkle the sesame seeds and scallions on top. You can serve the sesame noodles at room temperature or chill in the fridge for 1 to 2 hours before serving. 
Note: Leftovers will keep in the fridge for up to 3 or 4 days. 

In Recipes Tags American Chinese, Chinese, Global Chinese, Noodles, Recipes, Vegetarian, Favorites 
Share 
 31 Likes 
← Chicken Tikka MasalaEdamame Fried Rice → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Marbled Tea Eggs + Video! 
February 19, 2013 
Chinese Marbled Tea Eggs 
I'm excited to share with you all the first cooking video on Appetite for China! For a while I had considered adding video to enhance the content on this site, and finally the took the plunge after being inspired by fellow bloggers including Pinch of Yum, Crepes of Wrath, and Steamy Kitchen, plus a great panel on creating video at the Roger Smith Cookbook Conference a few weekends ago. So here's the first, born out of a fun Saturday afternoon. Let me know what you think! 

Chinese marbled tea eggs, stewed in a black tea/soy sauce/spice blend, are a ubiquitous and cheap snack sold all around China in snack stands and convenience stores. The aromas of tea, cinnamon, star anise, and soy sauce are intoxicating, just perfect for fall.The eggs are also easy to make at home. Getting the marbling effect is as simple as cracking the eggs once they're cooked. You can use any black tea: just avoid green tea since it's too astringent to use for simmering.) The eggs can be simmered for 1 to 2 hours: longer simmering means a more intense flavor and color. 

Once the eggs are cooked, you can eat them hot or cold as a snack. I've made lazy meals out of just 2 eggs over ramen noodles, or chopped up eggs over fried rice. Or serve them as appetizers at a party, cut in half with caviar on top. 

Update: Check out How to Make: Chinese Tea Eggs, the first of many cooking videos on Appetite for China! 


___________________________________ 

Chinese Marbled Tea Eggs 
Ingredients 

6 to 8 eggs, any size 
2 tea bags of black tea 
1/2 cup soy sauce or tamari 
1 tablespoon light brown sugar 
2 pieces star anise 
1 cinnamon stick 
1 teaspoon cracked black peppercorn (optional) 
2 to 3 strips dried mandarin peel (optional) 
Instructions 

Add enough water to a medium pot to cover the eggs. Bring the water to a boil, then lower the heat to simmer for 10 minutes, until the eggs are hard-boiled. 
Remove the eggs with a strainer and run under cold water until they are cool enough to handle. Tap the eggs with the back of a butter knife to crack them evenly all around, being careful not to peel off the shells. Return the eggs to the pot. 
In the same pot, add the tea bags, soy sauce, brown sugar, star anise, cinnamon, black peppercorns, and orange peel (if using). Add enough water to cover the eggs by an inch. Bring the liquid to a boil, then lower the heat to a bare simmer. Allow the eggs to simmer for 1 to 2 hours, longer for a more intense flavor and color. 
Remove from the heat and drain the eggs, saving a little of the liquid to serve with the eggs if you choose. You can either peel and serve the eggs immediately or store them in the fridge for up to 4 days in a tightly covered container. Serve as a snack as-is or as an addition to rice or noodles. 
Updated February 19, 2013. Original recipe posted May 8, 2008. 



In Recipes Tags Appetizers, Cantonese, Chinese, Eggs, Gluten-Free, Gluten-Free Adaptable, Healthy, Recipes, Vegetarian, Video 
Share 
 14 Likes 
← Chinese New Year Virtual Potluck + Winners!Favorite Dumpling Recipes → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Barbecued Pork (Char Siu) + Video 
April 2, 2013 
chinese-bbq-pork-5 
For the fourth video in my Chinese cooking video series, I decided to make a family recipe that's also one of the most popular in my new book The Chinese Takeout Cookbook. It's a quick fun video set to American folksy music, a nod to the Chinese cooking culture here in the U.S. dating from the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Enjoy! 

Along with wonton noodle soup, char siu (Chinese barbecued pork or Chinese roast pork) is the Cantonese people's greatest contribution to mankind. Really, who can resist slices of half-fatty, half-lean roast pork, crisp and dripping with caramelized juices? (I first posted this recipe for Chinese Barbecued Pork back in February 2009 and it became an instant hit.) 


You know those enticing pieces of pork dangling in Chinatown restaurant windows? When you get char siu at a Cantonese restaurant, it will most likely be red from a little food dye, used to attract customers. A small amount of dye isn't harmful (think of all those M&Ms and Skittles you've eaten). But sometimes a restaurant will go overboard. My mother still has nightmares of glowing magenta char siu from Boston's Chinatown. 

The solution, if you want to avoid unnatural coloring altogether, is to make char siu at home. Char siu is often translated as Chinese barbecued pork, but these days hardly anyone skewers the pork and cooks it over an open fire. (Roast pork is a more apt description). Rather, the name has stuck because the outside of char siu is slightly blackened from roasting. 

Chinese BBQ Pork (Chinese Roast Pork) 
My method for making Chinese roast pork, which I learned from my mom, is very easy, and still produces very succulent and drool-worthy meat. Rather than food coloring, you can get good color (not ghastly color) from dark soy sauce, a little hoisin sauce, and honey. The key is marinating the meat for 2 to 3 hours to allow the flavors to seep in, and roasting the pork belly whole. Lean pork doesn't work as well, because the fat keeps the insides moist. 

You can serve this as-is, as part of a multi-course meal, or add them to noodle soup with shiitakes and Chinese greens. Or make char siu bau (roast pork buns.) 

Have you ever made Chinese roast pork at home? 

Chinese Barbecued Pork 
____________________________________ 

Chinese Barbecued Pork (Char Siu) 
Serves 4 to 6 

Ingredients 

1 pound whole pork belly, skin removed 
2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 tablespoons dark soy sauce, or substitute regular soy sauce 
2 tablespoons sugar 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
½ tablespoon hoisin sauce 
½ teaspoon five-spice powder 
2 tablespoons honey 
Instructions 

Marinate the pork belly: In a large bowl, mix together the rice wine, dark soy sauce, sugar, garlic, hoisin sauce, and five-spice powder. Rub the pork belly with the marinade mixture and marinate for 2 to 3 hours in the refrigerator. 
Preheat the oven to 325°F. 
Hold up the pork for a few seconds to allow excess marinade to drip off, then place the pork in a roasting pan. Brush the top with the honey. Roast the pork for about 45 minutes, flipping over the pork belly half-way through and brushing honey on the other side. The pork is done when the outsides begin to crisp and blacken and the center of the pork belly strip feels firm. 
Remove the pork from oven and let it cool for 5 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a cutting board and cut into thin slices. Arrange the slices on a plate and serve. 
Recipe first posted February 24, 2009. Updated April 2, 2013. 



In Recipes Tags Cantonese, Chinese, Pork, Recipes, Video 
Share 
 36 Likes 
← Flourless Peanut Butter CookiesSichuan Eggplant → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves + Giveaway 
March 4, 2014 
Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves 
This winter has been super busy here at my Brooklyn studio. Since launching Plate & Pencil, and being busy teaching a ton of post-holiday classes, I've been pretty much sticking to simple nightly cooking routines. Roast chicken and salads. Spaghetti. Takeout. A Sunday of dumpling-making followed by 5 days of dumplings for dinner. I kept meaning to get back into the kitchen to develop a new recipe. And luckily, a few weeks ago, I got ed by Bonne Maman, one of my favorite jam companies, to develop a recipe with the National Pork Board to use one of their delicious jams and preserves with St. Louis-style pork ribs. 

How could I say no to developing a recipe for sweet and savory ribs? 

When I make Chinese-style roasted meats, there is usually a sweet element involved, whether in the form of honey, sugar, and/or hoisin sauce. So it wasn't a big departure to use plum preserves instead. The thick texture makes the preserves perfect for a marinade, and they whisk easily with other ingredients I have on hand. 

bonne-maman-pork-ribs-700px.jpg 
For this recipe, I used St. Louis-style pork ribs, which are basically just pork ribs with the sternum  bone, cartilage, and rib tips removed. Any good butcher can easily square off the rack of ribs for you. Though the name of the cut comes from St. Louis-style barbecue, it's also the cut most typically served in Chinese restaurants in the US.  

Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves 
So...have these photos enticed you enough to try them yet? They are super easy with a great complex flavor of sweetness from the preserves, tartness from the vinegar, earthiness from the hoisin sauce, and lip-smacking savoriness from the soy sauce and pork itself. Not to mention roasted garlic aroma and flavor.  You simply cut the ribs apart before roasting, whisk together the marinade, wait a few hours, then roast in the for 45 to 50 minutes. St. Louis-style ribs are so incredibly versatile and easy to prepare that it's surprising more home cooks don't use them for more than barbecue. 

Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves 
Giveaway: 
So, dear readers, now you have a chance to win some cool prizes: a $40 Visa gift card courtesy of the National Board Pork, and 12 jars of Bonne Maman jams ($60 value). 

Simply visit porkbeinspired.com/PORKLUV or http://facebook.com/PorkBeInspired and post a message sharing why you love pork with the hastag PORKLUV. 
You can get an additional entry by using Twitter to tweet about this recipe with hashtag PORKLUV. 
Then just post a comment here at the bottom of this post with your name and email address so we can contact you. 
Giveaway will end March 7th, 2014.  
Plus! By sharing your PORKLUV you'll also be helping those in need. Each Facebook share will turn up the heat on the PORKLUV map, an interactive map that measures how much PORKLUV there is in each state. The state with the most shares will receive a 30,000-meal fresh pork donation to the food bank in their state.   

Hope you enjoy the recipe and follow the simple steps above for a chance to win and help your state's food bank! 

UPDATE: Congrats to the winner, Rachel from Indiana! 

_______________________________ 
Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves 
Serves 4 

4 pounds St. Louis-style pork ribs 
6 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 cup Bonne Maman plum jam 
1/2 cup soy sauce 
3 tablespoons rice vinegar 
2 tablespoons hoisin sauce 
Prepare the marinade: in a large bowl, combine the minced garlic, plum jam, soy sauce, rice vinegar, and hoisin sauce. Whisky until smooth. Place the ribs in a gallon-size freezer bag and pour the marinade over the ribs. Close the bag and shake so that all the ribs get covered with marinade. Place the freezer bag in the fridge for at least 2 hours, or ideally overnight. 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line baking sheets with tin foil or parchment paper. Place the ribs on the lined baking sheets bone-side-down. Reserve the remaining marinade and brush some of it on top with a pastry brush. Roast for 45 to 50 minutes, brushing more marinade over the top of the ribs about halfway through. The ribs are done when they are golden brown on top and cooked through. 
Transfer the ribs to a large platter and serve. Enjoy! 




Share 
 19 Likes 
← Spicy Wok-Fried Chicken with Chilis (Chongqing Chicken)Chinese Shrimp with Black Bean Sauce → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Almond Chicken 
January 5, 2012 
almond-chicken-4 
I don't know what it is about chicken and nuts, but they seem to go perfectly together. Other than pork with peanuts, no other meat gets the same natural pairing, at least with whole nuts. There's a well-known chicken dish for just about every kind of nut out there, from Kung Pao chicken to chicken with cashews, all with different sauces and slightly different preparation methods. 

Almond Chicken is another winner to add to that list. It was a pretty popular dish starting around a century ago, served alongside egg foo young and chop suey at Chinese restaurants in the U.S. From the 1940s through the 1960s, cookbooks aimed at American housewives printed recipes to allow them to recreate the popular dish at home. Why its popularity waned (at least on the East Coast!), when cashew chicken and walnut chicken are still Chinese menu standbys, is a mystery for the ages. 

This recipe for almond chicken is adapted from Ken Hom's Easy Family Recipes from a Chinese-American Childhood. He writes that the more old school Chinese-American restaurants serve the dish with a dark-brown sauce, a sort of ready-made gravy that is artificially colored to make our American customers more comfortable with Chinese dishes. 

The recipe he offers, however, has a much lighter sauce that is still delicious, despite the minimalist ingredient list. The chicken is first velveted, a technique in which the chicken is marinated with egg whites and cornstarch, then blanched in water or before being stir-fried. This method locks in moisture: the finished texture is silky and extremely succulent. Really, you don't miss the heavy brown sauce at all. I changed the recipe a bit by using almond slivers instead of whole almonds, and added frozen peas for color and to make it a more well-rounded dish. 

___________________________ 
 
Chinese Almond Chicken 

Serves 4 

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breast or thighs, cut into 1-inch cubes 
1 egg white 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 
1 scallion, chopped 
1/2 cup frozen peas 
1 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1/4 cup roasted slivered or sliced almonds 
In a medium bowl, combine the chicken with the egg white, salt, and cornstarch. Stir until the cornstarch is fully dissolved. Let sit for 10 minutes. 
In a small pot, bring about 1 quart of water to boil.  Add 1 tablespoon of the oil to the water. Add the chicken, and blanch for 1 minute, until the chicken is white on the outside but not cooked through. Drain the chicken well and set aside. 
In a wok or large skillet, heat the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil over medium-high heat. Add the chopped scallions and stir-fry briefly until aromatic, about 20 seconds. Add the chicken and frozen peas and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the soy sauce and sherry and cook for another 1 to 2 minutes. Sprinkle in the almonds and stir so they are well-coated with the sauce. Transfer to a plate and serve. 


Adapted from Easy Family Recipes from a Chinese-American Childhood (Knopf Cooks American Series) by Ken Hom 

In Blog Tags Chicken, Chinese, Healthy, Recipes 
Share 
 4 Likes 
← Chinese New Year Dinner, Jan 21stDumplings and Wontons Class, Jan 15th → 



START RECIPE

Asparagus and Ginger Fried Rice 
April 29, 2013 
Asparagus and Ginger Fried Rice 
This past week I taught two cooking classes that focused on using seasonal produce in Asian stir-fries, dumplings, salads, and noodle dishes. They were both really fun, and I got a lot of great feedback from students who loved that it was traditional cooking with a twist, using super fresh, locally sourced vegetables. 

We used farmer's market produce in dishes such as a lamb and fava bean stir-fry, dumplings with Swiss chard and ramps, and miso cod with roasted red radishes. It goes to show that just because you're cooking Asian food doesn't mean you're limited to the usual suspects like bok choy, cabbage, and daikon, some of which aren't the best right now. 

Throughout the year I like to adapt my fried rice ingredients to suit the seasons, such as using more root vegetables in the winter or pumpkin in the fall. Right now asparagus stalks are looking mighty fine at the Greenmarket, so this is my fried rice du jour.  

Here, I also added a bit more ginger than usual for a sharper flavor. You can serve this as is or even with a bit of mint on the side, as we did in class this week in a fried rice using freshly shelled peas. Spring in a bowl! 

________________________________ 

Asparagus and Ginger Fried Rice 

Serves 3 to 4 as a side 

3 cups cooled leftover white rice 
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil 
1 tablespoon minced or grated ginger 
2 scallions, finely chopped 
1 pound asparagus, cut into 1 1/2-inch lengths 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 
Break up the cooled cooked rice into smaller clumps. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil and swirl to coat the base. Add the ginger and scallions and cook for about 30 seconds, until just aromatic. 
Add the asparagus and stir-fry for about 3 minutes, until tender crisp. 
Add the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil to pan. Toss in the rice and break up any remaining clumps with a spatula. Continue to stir-fry until the rice starts to turn golden, about 2 minutes. Add the soy sauce and stir until well-mixed with the rice. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Transfer the rice to a large communal bowl or individual bowls and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Asparagus, Recipes, Rice, Vegetarian 
Share 
 4 Likes 
← Salted LassiAppetite for China Cooking Videos → 



START RECIPE

Black Pepper Beef Stir-fry 
May 31, 2011 
black-pepper-beef-5 
Back when I made black pepper beef in Beijing,  flank steak was surprisingly difficult to find. Sure, black pepper beef is more of a Cantonese stir-fry, and the Chinese eat pork way more than beef, but somehow I just didn't expect to have to buy all my flank steak at a gourmet market for expats. Luckily, now I'm back in Brooklyn and living within walking distance of at least five big grocery stores, all of which have flank steak in abundance. 

Over the years I've altered my recipe (first published July 27, 2008) to include ground black pepper in the sauce instead of the marinade, so the flavor is now more pronounced. The proportions of the sauce ingredients have also been updated: this sauce has less sodium, less sugar, less oil, but still maintains plenty of flavor. Try it out and let me know what you think! 

Flank steak is something I hardly ever cook in China, mostly because I am almost never in the vicinity of a good butcher. But last weekend, I decided to treat myself to a massage to help with a sore back. Walking out blissful and somewhat painfree, I realized I was near Boucherie Michel, the only place in town where I could find quality cuts of meat and imported cheeses and wine and pricey organic food. (How I miss the days when I could pop down to the Fairway in West Harlem for all my grocery needs.) 

I bought 200 grams of flank steak and made a stir-fry with peppers and onions. The sauce is relatively easy: soy sauce, oyster sauce, sugar, sesame oil, and most importantly, a copious amount of freshly ground black pepper. In fact, the only thing tricky about this dish in slicing the beef thin enough, which is made easier if you pop the meat in the freezer for about 15 to 20 minutes beforehand. Then just slice at an angle, perpendicular to the grain: doing so shortens the muscle fibers and makes the meat less chewy when cooked. 

____________________________ 

Black Pepper Beef Stir-fry 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1/2 pound flank steak, cut against the grain into 1/4-inch-thick slices 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 medium onion, thinly sliced 
1 bell pepper, thinly sliced 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
Marinade: 

1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
Sauce: 

1 tablespoon oyster sauce 
1/2 tablespoon soy sauce 
1/2 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1/2 tablespoon sugar 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
1/2 teaspoon of freshly ground black pepper 
Instructions 

Marinate the beef: In a large bowl, combine the flank steak with the soy sauce, rice wine, and cornstarch. Let stand for 10 to 15 minutes. 
Prepare the sauce: In a small bowl, combine the oyster sauce, soy sauce, rice wine, sugar, sesame oil, and black pepper. Stir until the sugar is dissolved and set aside. 
Heat oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat until a drop of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Swirl in the oil. Add the beef in one layer and allow it to sear on one side for 1 minute. Stir-fry for another 2 minutes, until the outside is no longer red but the beef is not yet cooked through. Remove from the wok and set aside. 
In the same wok, add the garlic, onions, and peppers and stir-fry until the aromatic and the edges of the onions begin to caramelize, about 1 to 2 minutes. Return the beef to the wok. Add the sauce and stir well to coat. Transfer to a large plate and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Beef, Cantonese, Chinese, Recipes 
Share 
 3 Likes 
← Letterpress Pork, Beef, and Lamb PostersSoy Sauce Chicken → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Barbecued Pork (Char Siu) + Video 
April 2, 2013 
chinese-bbq-pork-5 
For the fourth video in my Chinese cooking video series, I decided to make a family recipe that's also one of the most popular in my new book The Chinese Takeout Cookbook. It's a quick fun video set to American folksy music, a nod to the Chinese cooking culture here in the U.S. dating from the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Enjoy! 

Along with wonton noodle soup, char siu (Chinese barbecued pork or Chinese roast pork) is the Cantonese people's greatest contribution to mankind. Really, who can resist slices of half-fatty, half-lean roast pork, crisp and dripping with caramelized juices? (I first posted this recipe for Chinese Barbecued Pork back in February 2009 and it became an instant hit.) 


You know those enticing pieces of pork dangling in Chinatown restaurant windows? When you get char siu at a Cantonese restaurant, it will most likely be red from a little food dye, used to attract customers. A small amount of dye isn't harmful (think of all those M&Ms and Skittles you've eaten). But sometimes a restaurant will go overboard. My mother still has nightmares of glowing magenta char siu from Boston's Chinatown. 

The solution, if you want to avoid unnatural coloring altogether, is to make char siu at home. Char siu is often translated as Chinese barbecued pork, but these days hardly anyone skewers the pork and cooks it over an open fire. (Roast pork is a more apt description). Rather, the name has stuck because the outside of char siu is slightly blackened from roasting. 

Chinese BBQ Pork (Chinese Roast Pork) 
My method for making Chinese roast pork, which I learned from my mom, is very easy, and still produces very succulent and drool-worthy meat. Rather than food coloring, you can get good color (not ghastly color) from dark soy sauce, a little hoisin sauce, and honey. The key is marinating the meat for 2 to 3 hours to allow the flavors to seep in, and roasting the pork belly whole. Lean pork doesn't work as well, because the fat keeps the insides moist. 

You can serve this as-is, as part of a multi-course meal, or add them to noodle soup with shiitakes and Chinese greens. Or make char siu bau (roast pork buns.) 

Have you ever made Chinese roast pork at home? 

Chinese Barbecued Pork 
____________________________________ 

Chinese Barbecued Pork (Char Siu) 
Serves 4 to 6 

Ingredients 

1 pound whole pork belly, skin removed 
2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 tablespoons dark soy sauce, or substitute regular soy sauce 
2 tablespoons sugar 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
½ tablespoon hoisin sauce 
½ teaspoon five-spice powder 
2 tablespoons honey 
Instructions 

Marinate the pork belly: In a large bowl, mix together the rice wine, dark soy sauce, sugar, garlic, hoisin sauce, and five-spice powder. Rub the pork belly with the marinade mixture and marinate for 2 to 3 hours in the refrigerator. 
Preheat the oven to 325°F. 
Hold up the pork for a few seconds to allow excess marinade to drip off, then place the pork in a roasting pan. Brush the top with the honey. Roast the pork for about 45 minutes, flipping over the pork belly half-way through and brushing honey on the other side. The pork is done when the outsides begin to crisp and blacken and the center of the pork belly strip feels firm. 
Remove the pork from oven and let it cool for 5 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a cutting board and cut into thin slices. Arrange the slices on a plate and serve. 
Recipe first posted February 24, 2009. Updated April 2, 2013. 



In Recipes Tags Cantonese, Chinese, Pork, Recipes, Video 
Share 
 36 Likes 
← Flourless Peanut Butter CookiesSichuan Eggplant → 



START RECIPE

Brandied Chicken and Mushrooms in Oyster Sauce 
January 3, 2013 
Brandied Chicken and Mushrooms in Oyster Sauce 
Happy 2013! 

I just came back from a nice long trip to Boston to visit family for the holidays. I have to admit: it's been very nice to take a break from blogging for a short while. Having been a blogger for so long (5 years!), I sometimes have a lot of trouble separating it from daily life. It's not like having a 9-5 job, where you can mostly leave your work at the office. Weeknights? Why not stay up until midnight working on a post? Weekends? Perfect time for recipe-testing! 

In the past year or so I've gotten much better about setting aside time just for relaxation. I now leave at least an hour before bed for reading or something similarly relaxing, instead of just going straight for editing photos to hitting the pillow. Saturdays have become unplug days (well, mostly...checking email on the phone doesn't count, right?) 

Needless to say, my habits could get better. And that's one resolution for 2013, to be more efficient with work so that I have enough leisure time to recharge my batteries. 

Another resolution is to actually use the many, many cookbooks sitting on my shelves. I am somewhat of a cookbook-collecting fiend and keep buying them even though I'm quickly running out of space to store them. Every crevice of my apartment has cookbooks, from the coffee table to the wine cart to underneath my bed. Yet for some reason, I don't cook out of them as often as I should. 

I received a copy of The Asian Grandmothers Cookbook a few months ago and regretfully haven't had a chance to cook out of it until now. I've been following Pat's blog for a few years and it has always made me hungry-nostalgic for dishes from all over Asia. The Brandied Chicken and Mushrooms in Oyster Sauce from her cookbook seemed like the perfect quick and easy dish to help me transition from the vacation state of mind. 

I made only a few small changes, such as using chicken breasts instead of chicken thighs. (As a big advocate for the deliciousness of chicken thighs, this is a substitution which I almost never make, but for some reason three supermarkets near my apartment were all out of them that day.) But this dish is great with either ingredient. I also added a bit of Chinese rice wine to loosen the chicken from the pan, and the light flavor went well with the brandy. All in all, a very easy comfort food dish to start off the new year. 


___________________________________________ 

Brandied Chicken and Mushrooms in Oyster Sauce 

Serves 4 

2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
One 1-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and minced 
1 medium yellow onion, thinly sliced 
1 1/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breast or thighs, cut into 1-inch cubes 
2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
8 ounces white button or cremini mushrooms, stemmed and sliced 
1/4 cup oyster sauce 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
Salt and pepper to taste 
2 tablespoons brandy 
1 scallion, chopped or thinly sliced for garnish 
Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the oil and swirl to coat the base. Add the garlic and ginger and cook until just fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the onion and stir-fry until soft and translucent, 2 to 3 minutes. 
Add the chicken and cook, stirring, until no longer pink, 2 to 3 minutes. Swirl in the rice wine to loosen the brown bits from the bottom of the pan.  Add the mushrooms, then add the oyster sauce, soy sauce, and brandy and simmer for another 2 or 3 minutes, until the chicken is fully cooked. Adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper.  Transfer to a serving dish, sprinkle scallions on top, and serve. 
Adapted from The Asian Grandmothers Cookbook: Home Cooking from Asian American Kitchens 

In Recipes Tags Chicken, Chinese, Recipes 
Share 
 4 Likes 
← Asian-Style Peanut Butter Carrot SaladBacon Parmesan Brussels Sprouts → 


START RECIPE

Cantonese Tomato Beef 
June 27, 2011 
beef-tomato-onion-2 
Cantonese tomato beef is one of those dishes that make me nostalgic for Hong Kong. They can be found on the menus of western-style cafés all over the city, next to other east-west classics such as wok-fried spaghetti and macaroni with canned meat in Chinese chicken broth. While it's also a fast dish that families whip up at home, I can't help associating it with a cozy, slightly worn, Formica-laden interiors of Hong Kong diners. 

Sometimes, your tomato beef comes to the table still hot on sizzling platter. Those were the best, the kind that reminded me of sizzling fajitas at stateside Tex-Mex restaurants. But even if you don't have a cast-iron skillet at home to serve this in, the dish will still come out great. The recipe is rather fool-proof, and great for nights when you need a fast dinner. 

The best kind of beef to use is flank steak, which stays incredibly tender if you marinate it with the cornstarch mixture below, and stir-fry it for a few short minutes. (Be sure to slice against the grain. Also, freezing the beef for 15 to 20 minutes slicing the beef a lot easier.) Tomato beef is usually served with white rice, but try some boiled or pan-fried egg noodles if you're in the mood. 

__________________________________ 

Cantonese Tomato Beef 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound flank steak, cut against the grain into 1/4-inch-thick slices 
1 1/2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil 
1 yellow onion, thickly sliced 
2 cloves garlic, chopped 
1 pound tomatoes, cut into wedges 
Freshly ground black pepper to taste 
Marinade: 

1 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
Sauce: 

2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 
1/2 tablespoon soy sauce 
1/2 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
Instructions 

Marinate the beef: In a large bowl, stir together soy sauce, rice wine, and cornstarch until the cornstarch is dissolved. Toss the sliced beef in the marinade to coat. Let stand for 30 minutes to let the flavors absorb. 
Prepare the sauce: In a small bowl, stir together the Worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, and rice wine. Set aside. 
Heat the oil in a wok over high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil and swirl the pan to coat the base and sides. Add the beef and sear until light brown on the outside but not yet cooked through, about 2 minutes. Scoop the beef from the wok and set aside. 
Add the remaining 1/2 tablespoon of the oil to the wok and swirl to coat the sides again. Add the onions and garlic and stir-fry until just fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the tomatoes and cook for 2 minutes: they should soften but still be sturdy enough to hold their shape. Stir the sauce into the wok. Return the beef to the wok and stir-fry for another minute until the beef is cooked through. Transfer to a plate and serve with rice or noodles. 
In Blog Tags Beef, Cantonese, Chinese, Healthy, Recipes, Tomatoes 
Share 
 17 Likes 
← Sparkling Watermelon LemonadeMapo Tofu Ramen (Mabo Ramen) → 



START RECIPE

Chicken and Apple Dumplings 
September 28, 2010 
chicken-apple-dumplings.jpg 
Ever gone apple-picking on a 90-degree day? Last weekend probably had the last of such summery temperatures until next June. But instead of lounging on the beach, I was at the apple orchard helping to pick about 30 pounds of crisp, earlyish-in-the-season apples. Signs of fall weren't completely missing: on the drive up the Hudson from New York, I spotted abut one in 30 trees with a vibrant red or orange hue. 

The cool weather on the radar for this week (and my insatiable craving for appley desserts) is probably a good sign that it had been the perfect time to go apple-picking. 

What does one end up doing with 30 pounds of apples? Apple bread, apple fritters, and apple cookies were all cranked out this weekend. In lieu of apple pie, we attempted apple pandowdy (which, I was reminded, is in the lyrics of an oldies hit.) For something savory, I decided to try apple dumplings. 

Chicken, with a more subtle flavor than pork, seemed like a nice pairing for the apple. I added some chopped onions, ground ginger, and apple cider to the mix. They were like the chicken and apple sausages that you can find at grocery stores, except in dumpling form that you can dip into soy sauce. If you can't find pre-ground chicken, you can also try ground turkey, or (if you own a KitchenAid Mixer with a sausage attachment) make ground chicken with chicken breast meat. 

For a refresher on wrapping dumplings, see my Dumpling Wrapping Photo Guide. 

With 50 dumplings, I thought that most would end up frozen for a rainy day (as in, at least a week later.) By the following evening, more than half were gone. 

Most of the apples, however, remain. About 25 pounds' worth. Anyone have other suggestions for dishes, savory or sweet? 

______________________________ 

Chicken and Apple Dumplings 


Makes 50 

1 pound ground chicken (or substitute ground turkey) 
1 or 2 medium-sized apples (any variety), finely chopped 
1 medium onion, finely chopped 
1 tablespoon apple juice or cider 
1/2 teaspoon grated ginger 
1/8 teaspoon salt 
1 pinch ground black pepper 
1 package dumpling wrappers (about 50 per package) 
Mix together the chicken, apple, onion, apple juice/cider, ginger, salt, and pepper. 
Unwrap dumpling wrappers and keep them covered in plastic or under a damp towel.  
If you’re just starting out with dumpling folding, follow this step-by-step guide that shows a basic method with 3 pleats per dumpling. If you’d like to work your way up to 5 pleats, start in the middle and do 3 pleats towards the middle from one direction and and 2 pleats toward the middle from the other. (See these photos for reference.) 
To pan-fry, follow steps 6 and 7 in my Dumpling Wrapping Photo Guide. To boil the dumplings instead, bring a pot of water to boil. Add dumplings and simmer until they float to the top, about 3 minutes (this method of assuring doneness works if your dumplings have no air pockets: otherwise, they float to the top immediately.) Drain well. 
Transfer to serving plates, and serve with soy sauce. 
In Recipes Tags Appetizers, Chicken, Chinese, Dumplings, Recipes 
Share 
 1 Likes 
← Tamarind PorkMongolian Beef → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Burmese Chili Chicken 
February 15, 2011 
Chinese-Burmese Chili Chicken 
Almost every omnivore in the U.S. goes wild for chicken wings. Juicy meat, glistening skin that can be roasted, grilled or fried...what's not to love? Yet very few of us seem to feel the same about chicken thighs or chicken legs. Last July, when every store in my Brooklyn neighbordhood was out of chicken wings, I had no trouble finding abundant supplies of fresh, organic chicken legs for less than $2 a pound. 

A recent article in Slate about the U.S. needing new markets for exporting dark chicken meat  made me ponder (again) why we are a nation of wings and chicken breast lovers who toss or export the rest of the bird. You can't find more polar opposites, as far as chicken parts go, than wings and chicken breast. One is all skin and rich dark meat that oozes flavor, the other is lean and frankly, rather bland on its own. 

While I like chicken breast in chicken noodle soup and somestir-fries, it's rather boring compared with dark meat and shines only when paired with tastier ingredients. You can't just rub a skinless chicken breast with olive oil and pepper and salt, stick it in the oven, and call it good. 

I guess wings get a free pass because it's bar food, party food, or summer cook-out food, often eaten while chatting with friends or ing a game on TV. But for entrees, subject to more scrutiny, we seem to steer overwhelmingly toward chicken breast. Is it health concerns? Skinless dark meat has only a smidgen more calories and fat than chicken breast. Is it ease of preparation? Many stores sell skinless and boneless dark meat, and you can stir-fry or braise it with ease. And maybe it's just because I live in New York, but chicken breast also seems to cost about three times as much as chicken legs or thighs. 

Chicken breast can be great in a number of things (heck, I have a good handful of recipes on this site that call for it). But I'll make it my mission today to be a cheerleader for dark meat. Please, have it for dinner some time this week! Your taste buds, wallet, and eventually the American poultry industry (including the small producers), will thank you. 

One dish you can make, a very easy stir-fry that I also recently tried, is the Chinese Burmese Chili Chicken from Grace Young's Stir-Frying to the Sky's Edge. It's a great cookbook focusing on stir-frying techniques that's easy enough for beginners and in-depth enough to keep more experienced cooks entralled. What drew me most to the book is that Grace includes cross-cultural recipes such as Chinese Trinidadian Stir-fried Shrimp with Rum and Peruvian lomo saltado, which show how stir-frying has infiltrated every country that has become home to a large number of Chinese immigrants. 

Although the recipe can be made with both boneless chicken thigh or breast, using dark meat produces a noticeably juicier finished dish. I love the use of cumin, paprika, and chili, which add a smoky dimension that reminds me of a combination of Xinjiang and Hunan cooking. (I substituted a jalapeño pepper for Anaheim chili because it was easier to find, which also increased the spiciness.) And zucchini! The zucchini soaks up the sauce like a sponge and becomes as tender and flavorful as the chicken. 

If any dish will convince you of how well dark meat works in stir-fries, this will. 

____________________________________ 

Chinese Burmese Chili Chicken 

Serves 4 

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken thigh or breast, cut into 1-inch cubes 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil, for cooking 
1 medium yellow onion, cut into large dice 
2 teaspoons minced ginger 
2 teaspoons minced garlic 
2 medium red bell peppers, cut into 1-inch squares 
1 jalapeno pepper, thinly sliced 
1 medium zucchini, halved lengthwise and each half thinly sliced 
For the marinade: 

1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
For the sauce: 

1/2 teaspoon cornstarch 
2 teaspoons paprika 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
2 tablespoons fish sauce 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
Marinate the chicken: in a medium bowl, mix together 1 tablespoon of the oil, 1 teaspoon of the cornstarch, 1/2 teaspoon of the salt, and the pepper. Add the chicken and coat well with the marinade mixture. Let stand while you prepare the other ingredients. 
In a small bowl mix the remaining 1/2 teaspoon of cornstarch with 1/3 cup of cold water until the cornstarch is dissolved.  In another small bowl combine the paprika, cumin, and cayenne pepper. 
Heat a wok over high heat and swirl in the 1 tablespoon of cooking oil. Add the onions and stir-fry for 1 minute, until the edges of the onions begin to crisp. Push the onions to the sides of the wok and add the chicken, spreading it evenly in one layer. Allow the chicken to sear undisturbed for 1 minute. Stir-fry for another minute, until the outsides have turned white. Add the ginger, garlic, and paprika mixture and stir-fry for 30 seconds, or until the aromatics are fragrant and the chicken is well-coated with the spices. 
Add the bell peppers, zucchini, and chilis. Drizzle in the fish sauce and the 1/4 teaspoon of salt for the sauce. Restir the cornstarch mixture and pour it into the wok, stirring until everything is well-coated. Stir-fry for another minute, until the chicken is cooked through. Transfer to a plate and serve. 
Adapted from Stir-Frying to the Sky's Edge by Grace Young. 

In Recipes Tags Burmese, Chicken, Chinese, Recipes 
Share 
 1 Likes 
← Dim Sum in Sunset Park - East Harbor Seafood PalaceNyonya - Malaysian Food in Chinatown → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Grocery Roast Pork, or Mississippi-Style Char Siu 
December 13, 2010 
chinese-grocery-roast-pork.jpg 
My bookcase is resembling the Leaning Tower of Pisa. It's not a very sturdy piece of furniture to begin with, and under the weight of all my cookbooks it has begun to lean more and more to the left, about an 1/8 of an inch each day for the past week. There's probably a loose screw in the back. Every time I remove a book or put one back on the shelf, it makes a creak that says I'm going to topple at any second. Either I buy a new bookcase, stat, or stop purchasing cookbooks. 

Buying a new bookcase was the easier option. While I wait for a new bookcase to be delivered (a nice sturdy mahogany one), I've had to momentarily suspend cookbook buying. Unfortunately, because the Brooklyn Public Library does such a good job of stocking up on newish tomes, my piles continue to grow. 

Thanks to the library, my favorite cookbook discovery from the past month was actually published in 2008. And it's not Chinese. 

Martha Hall Foose's Screen Doors and Sweet Tea: Recipes and Tales from a Southern Cook makes me want to rent a car and take a road trip to the Mississippi Delta right this second. (And I absolutely hate car rental lots and long drives.) I love the author's story-like headnotes for her recipes that make me want to try my hand at everything from Duck and Sausage Gumbo to Sweet Tea Pie. I will just let that sink in for a moment. Sweet Tea. In pie form. How can that be anything but amazing? 

How this is all relevant to a Chinese food blog is that the author has a recipe called Chinese Grocery Roast Pork. She states in the headnote: 

By the early twentieth century, the Mississippi Delta was home to a large community of Chinese Americans. As plantation commissaries began to close, more cash was circulated and the need grew for independent grocers. In 1920 the city of Greenville reportedly had 12 paved streets, 20 trains stopped there a day, and there were 50 Chinese grocery stores. Several families still run fourth- and fifth-generation groceries in tiny towns scattered across the Delta. 

Many versions of this red-tinged pork have been cooked on stoves in the back of family-run groceries in the area for years and years. 

I was very curious to see how this recipe would differ from my standard recipe for Cantonese Roast Pork and the next day lugged home a Boston butt. You can also opt for a picnic shoulder, but I find that the big shoulder blade bone helps keep the meat moist during the roasting process. The first thing that's different is that in my family, whether for time or space concerns, we usually roast pork belly and reserve shoulders for braises. (Maybe pork shoulder was just more widely available in 1920's Mississippi.) This recipe also calls for cinnamon and star anise, which add a nice, subtle flavoring to the sweetened sauce. 

Both the Boston butt and picnic shoulder require 4 to 4/12 hours of roasting, instead of a meager 1 hour for pork belly. However, because you'll be continuously basting after the first half hour, there is no need to marinate the meat. You loosen the skin without fully taking it off, and the fat from the skin will keep the top of the roast moist and flavorful. I found that my skin started to blacken close to the end, so I just covered it with tin foil for the rest of the time and basted only the sides. 

It was a fun experiment, and an excellent way to make a lot of pork at once if you have the entire afternoon free. I will also mention, though, that your apartment, hair, and clothes may smell like roast pork for the rest of the day, no matter how much you try to air them all out. Whether those are added perks is up to the cook. 

______________________________ 

Chinese Grocery Roast Pork 

Serves 6 to 8 

3 pounds picnic shoulder of pork or Boston butt 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
4 scallions, green parts discarded and whites chopped 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and grated 
Sauce: 
 
1 cup soy sauce 
1/2 cup dry sherry 
1/2 cup rice vinegar 
1 tablespoon hoisin sauce 
1 tablespoon honey 
2 tablespoons light brown sugar 
1 star anise 
2-inch piece cinnamon stick 
1/4 teaspoon five-spice powder 
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. 
Loosen the skin on the pork shoulder without removing it. 
In a small bowl, stir together the ingredients for the sauce. Set aside. 
In a Dutch oven or roasting pan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onions, garlic, and ginger and cook until just aromatic, about 1 minute. Add the sauce and simmer for 1 minute. Add 1 cup of water and bring the liquid to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. 
Carefully place the pork shoulder in the liquid and turn several times to coat it with the sauce. Transfer the pan to the the oven. Cook for 30 minutes undisturbed, then baste the meat with the looking liquid every 20 minutes until the internal temperature is 185 degrees F, about 4 to 4 1/2 hours. 
Transfer the pork to a cutting pork and allow it to rest for 10 minutes. Thinly slice the pork, transfer the sliced meat to a serving platter, and pour the pan juices over the meat. Serve with rice and/or cabbage. 
Adapted from Screen Doors and Sweet Tea: Recipes and Tales from a Southern Cook 

In Recipes Tags Chinese, Pork, Recipes 
Share 
 1 Likes 
← A Little Love from Wall Street Journal Asia, and the Holiday Nostalgia TrainSoupy Dumplings and Pan-fried Bao at Nan Xiang → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves + Giveaway 
March 4, 2014 
Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves 
This winter has been super busy here at my Brooklyn studio. Since launching Plate & Pencil, and being busy teaching a ton of post-holiday classes, I've been pretty much sticking to simple nightly cooking routines. Roast chicken and salads. Spaghetti. Takeout. A Sunday of dumpling-making followed by 5 days of dumplings for dinner. I kept meaning to get back into the kitchen to develop a new recipe. And luckily, a few weeks ago, I got ed by Bonne Maman, one of my favorite jam companies, to develop a recipe with the National Pork Board to use one of their delicious jams and preserves with St. Louis-style pork ribs. 

How could I say no to developing a recipe for sweet and savory ribs? 

When I make Chinese-style roasted meats, there is usually a sweet element involved, whether in the form of honey, sugar, and/or hoisin sauce. So it wasn't a big departure to use plum preserves instead. The thick texture makes the preserves perfect for a marinade, and they whisk easily with other ingredients I have on hand. 

bonne-maman-pork-ribs-700px.jpg 
For this recipe, I used St. Louis-style pork ribs, which are basically just pork ribs with the sternum  bone, cartilage, and rib tips removed. Any good butcher can easily square off the rack of ribs for you. Though the name of the cut comes from St. Louis-style barbecue, it's also the cut most typically served in Chinese restaurants in the US.  

Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves 
So...have these photos enticed you enough to try them yet? They are super easy with a great complex flavor of sweetness from the preserves, tartness from the vinegar, earthiness from the hoisin sauce, and lip-smacking savoriness from the soy sauce and pork itself. Not to mention roasted garlic aroma and flavor.  You simply cut the ribs apart before roasting, whisk together the marinade, wait a few hours, then roast in the for 45 to 50 minutes. St. Louis-style ribs are so incredibly versatile and easy to prepare that it's surprising more home cooks don't use them for more than barbecue. 

Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves 
Giveaway: 
So, dear readers, now you have a chance to win some cool prizes: a $40 Visa gift card courtesy of the National Board Pork, and 12 jars of Bonne Maman jams ($60 value). 

Simply visit porkbeinspired.com/PORKLUV or http://facebook.com/PorkBeInspired and post a message sharing why you love pork with the hastag PORKLUV. 
You can get an additional entry by using Twitter to tweet about this recipe with hashtag PORKLUV. 
Then just post a comment here at the bottom of this post with your name and email address so we can contact you. 
Giveaway will end March 7th, 2014.  
Plus! By sharing your PORKLUV you'll also be helping those in need. Each Facebook share will turn up the heat on the PORKLUV map, an interactive map that measures how much PORKLUV there is in each state. The state with the most shares will receive a 30,000-meal fresh pork donation to the food bank in their state.   

Hope you enjoy the recipe and follow the simple steps above for a chance to win and help your state's food bank! 

UPDATE: Congrats to the winner, Rachel from Indiana! 

_______________________________ 
Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves 
Serves 4 

4 pounds St. Louis-style pork ribs 
6 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 cup Bonne Maman plum jam 
1/2 cup soy sauce 
3 tablespoons rice vinegar 
2 tablespoons hoisin sauce 
Prepare the marinade: in a large bowl, combine the minced garlic, plum jam, soy sauce, rice vinegar, and hoisin sauce. Whisky until smooth. Place the ribs in a gallon-size freezer bag and pour the marinade over the ribs. Close the bag and shake so that all the ribs get covered with marinade. Place the freezer bag in the fridge for at least 2 hours, or ideally overnight. 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line baking sheets with tin foil or parchment paper. Place the ribs on the lined baking sheets bone-side-down. Reserve the remaining marinade and brush some of it on top with a pastry brush. Roast for 45 to 50 minutes, brushing more marinade over the top of the ribs about halfway through. The ribs are done when they are golden brown on top and cooked through. 
Transfer the ribs to a large platter and serve. Enjoy! 




Share 
 19 Likes 
← Spicy Wok-Fried Chicken with Chilis (Chongqing Chicken)Chinese Shrimp with Black Bean Sauce → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Marbled Tea Eggs + Video! 
February 19, 2013 
Chinese Marbled Tea Eggs 
I'm excited to share with you all the first cooking video on Appetite for China! For a while I had considered adding video to enhance the content on this site, and finally the took the plunge after being inspired by fellow bloggers including Pinch of Yum, Crepes of Wrath, and Steamy Kitchen, plus a great panel on creating video at the Roger Smith Cookbook Conference a few weekends ago. So here's the first, born out of a fun Saturday afternoon. Let me know what you think! 

Chinese marbled tea eggs, stewed in a black tea/soy sauce/spice blend, are a ubiquitous and cheap snack sold all around China in snack stands and convenience stores. The aromas of tea, cinnamon, star anise, and soy sauce are intoxicating, just perfect for fall.The eggs are also easy to make at home. Getting the marbling effect is as simple as cracking the eggs once they're cooked. You can use any black tea: just avoid green tea since it's too astringent to use for simmering.) The eggs can be simmered for 1 to 2 hours: longer simmering means a more intense flavor and color. 

Once the eggs are cooked, you can eat them hot or cold as a snack. I've made lazy meals out of just 2 eggs over ramen noodles, or chopped up eggs over fried rice. Or serve them as appetizers at a party, cut in half with caviar on top. 

Update: Check out How to Make: Chinese Tea Eggs, the first of many cooking videos on Appetite for China! 


___________________________________ 

Chinese Marbled Tea Eggs 
Ingredients 

6 to 8 eggs, any size 
2 tea bags of black tea 
1/2 cup soy sauce or tamari 
1 tablespoon light brown sugar 
2 pieces star anise 
1 cinnamon stick 
1 teaspoon cracked black peppercorn (optional) 
2 to 3 strips dried mandarin peel (optional) 
Instructions 

Add enough water to a medium pot to cover the eggs. Bring the water to a boil, then lower the heat to simmer for 10 minutes, until the eggs are hard-boiled. 
Remove the eggs with a strainer and run under cold water until they are cool enough to handle. Tap the eggs with the back of a butter knife to crack them evenly all around, being careful not to peel off the shells. Return the eggs to the pot. 
In the same pot, add the tea bags, soy sauce, brown sugar, star anise, cinnamon, black peppercorns, and orange peel (if using). Add enough water to cover the eggs by an inch. Bring the liquid to a boil, then lower the heat to a bare simmer. Allow the eggs to simmer for 1 to 2 hours, longer for a more intense flavor and color. 
Remove from the heat and drain the eggs, saving a little of the liquid to serve with the eggs if you choose. You can either peel and serve the eggs immediately or store them in the fridge for up to 4 days in a tightly covered container. Serve as a snack as-is or as an addition to rice or noodles. 
Updated February 19, 2013. Original recipe posted May 8, 2008. 



In Recipes Tags Appetizers, Cantonese, Chinese, Eggs, Gluten-Free, Gluten-Free Adaptable, Healthy, Recipes, Vegetarian, Video 
Share 
 14 Likes 
← Chinese New Year Virtual Potluck + Winners!Favorite Dumpling Recipes → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Walnut Chicken 
February 12, 2013 
chinese-walnut-chicken-2 
Happy Chinese New Year! 

The holiday has sort of snuck up on me, actually. I've spent the past two months in such a whirlwind of book promotion and other events, including speaking on a panel at the Roger Smith Cookbook Conference this past weekend, that February 10th was here before I knew it. Other than planning the Chinese New Year Virtual Potluck on this blog (which all you food bloggers should join!), I hadn't had a chance to plan ahead for the first few days of the New Year. 

Luckily, there are still 12 days left to plan a big dim sum outing or dinner. In the mean time, I still like to cook Chinese as much as possible, though leaning toward the simpler dishes. 

Like this Chinese Walnut Chicken. There are two versions of walnut chicken you might be familiar with, a stir-fry with a very light but flavorful sauce and one with a white creamy sauce made out of mayonnaise or sweetened condensed milk. This is the former, which I actually prefer, because you can actually taste the chicken and the sauce doesn't make you feel weighed down. 

chinese-walnut-chicken-1 
My version of walnut chicken involves first making candied walnuts. There are methods of making candied walnuts, involving toasting in the oven, deep-frying, or adding corn syrup or other excessive ingredients. But sometimes the most basic way is the best. You start off toasting the walnuts in a dry skillet. Then you melt sugar in a separate pan or pot until it fully caramelizes, then toss the walnuts in briefly before spreading them out on parchment paper. 

After that, the stir-frying is very straight-forward. If you're looking for a fast chicken dish with some sugary, crunchy goodness, this is a great one to try. 

____________________________ 

Chinese Walnut Chicken 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1/2 cup raw walnuts 
1/2 cup sugar 
1 pound boneless, skinless chicken thighs or breasts, cut into 1-inch cubes 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
2 scallions, chopped 
1 red bell pepper, sliced into thin strips 
1/4 cup frozen peas 
2 teaspoons hoisin sauce 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
Salt and pepper to taste 
Instructions 

In a dry skillet over medium heat, toast the walnuts for about 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Line a sheet pan with parchment paper. 
In a small pan or shallow pot over medium-low heat, heat the sugar, stirring continuously. The sugar will take about 3 to 5 minutes to turn amber and completely melt. Wait until the sugar completely melts, including the larger clumps. Turn off the heat and immediately stir in the walnuts. Quickly transfer the walnuts to the parchment-lined sheet pan. Using forks, quickly separate the walnuts so they don’t clump. (Don’t worry about getting all of them. What doesn’t separate can be broken apart with your hands when full cooled. Just make sure to separate the larger clumps immediately.) Set aside to cool while you prepare the chicken. 
Marinate the chicken: In a medium bowl, combine the chicken with the soy sauce, rice wine, and cornstarch. Stir until the cornstarch is dissolved and the chicken is well-coated with marinade. Let stand for 10 minutes. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the oil and swirl to coat the base. Add the scallions and cook for about 20 seconds, just until aromatic. Add the chicken and stir-fry until no longer pink, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the red bell pepper and frozen peas and cook for another 1 minute. 
Add the hoisin sauce and sesame oil. Stir so that everything is well-coated. Cook, stirring occasionally, for another 1 to 2 minutes, until the chicken is fully-cooked. Adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper if needed. Transfer to a plate and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Chicken, Chinese, Recipes 
Share 
 13 Likes 
← Favorite Dumpling RecipesChinese New Year Virtual Potluck: Grand Prizes from Le 



START RECIPE

Clay Pot Rice with Cantonese Sausage 
February 2, 2009 
claypot-rice-1.jpg 
One of the reasons I love visiting my parents in Zhongshan in Guangdong province is indulging in all the Cantonese food I miss living up north. And rarely do we eat out, although not for lack of good restaurants. Mostly we cook at home, sometimes experimenting, other times cooking old favorites. 

Clay pot rice with Cantonese sausage is one of my favorite homestyle favorites. Why eat plain rice when you can gobble up rice flavored with juicy sausages? Called lap mei fan or bo zai fan in Cantonese, clay pot rice is one of the easiest ways to elevate a weeknight meal, or act as a stand-alone meal. 

What kind of sausage can you use? Either of the ones in the photo below: all-pork sausage (the reddish one, and most common kind), or pork and duck (the darker ones, smokier in flavor.) The squarish piece is cured duck meat, like cured ham except different animal. The most common lap mei fan includes all three, but you can use just the all-pork sausage, which is easiest to find outside China. 

claypot-rice-sausage.jpg 
Another tip: if you're cooking rice in a clay pot on a gas stove, it's helpful to add a metal heat plate to diffuse the heat so the rice in the center doesn't burn. (After the rice has absorbed most of the water, place the plate - like the one above - between the wok and the burner.) If you don't have such a plate, just be diligent about stirring the rice in the middle of the pot. 

__________________________________________ 

Clay Pot Rice with Cantonese Sausage  

Serves 4 

3 cups white rice 
Enough water to cover rice by 1/2 inch 
1 tablespoon vegetable or peanut oil 
1/2 tablespoon salt 
3 to 4 Cantonese sausages (lap cheong) 
1 to 2 small bunches choi sum or Chinese broccoli (gai lan) 
1/4 cup soy sauce 
Egg for frying, optional 
In a clay pot, add enough water to cover the rice by 1/2 inch. Stir in the oil and salt. Let stand 15 minutes. 
Meanwhile, quickly plunge the sausages in boiling water, like blanching vegetables, and remove. (This removes the surface oil and other debris, especially helpful if your sausages are sold unwrapped.) 
Bring the water in the clay pot to boil over medium-high heat. Add the sausages to the rice once the water is boiling. Reduce the heat to medium and simmer with the lid on. After 10 to 12 minutes, when the rice has absorbed most of the water (as indicated by lack of water bubbles), add the  metal plates (optional) to diffuse heat. 
Cook another 10 minutes, then add the leafy greens to the top of the rice, and drizzle over with soy sauce. Re-cover the pot, allow the greens to steam in the rice for 3 to 5 minutes, then turn off heat. Remove the sausages and slice. Return sausages to the rice and keep the pot covered until ready to serve. (Optional: Add fried or over-easy egg.) 
In Recipes Tags Cantonese, Chinese, Recipes 
Share 
 1 Likes 
← Chinese Drinks Chat: Beijing BoyceTaro and Pumpkin Tofu Puffs → 



START RECIPE

Coca-Cola Chicken Wings 
June 10, 2012 
Coca-Cola Chicken Wings 
Here's a goody from the archives. A number of you have tried this recipe for Coca-cola Chicken wings that I first posted in March 2011. You wouldn't guess just how delicious it is based on the simple ingredients. In this recipe that's a favorite of home cooks in China, Cola-Cola and soy sauce meld to form a great sweet and savory glaze for the chicken.  You get a great caramelized flavor without the work! 

I don't know exactly when or how Coca-cola chicken wings became a Chinese dish, but it's a baby compared to everything that originated back when dynasties existed. Heck, many people don't even realize it's a Chinese dish, much less a common one. I have never seen it printed on a restaurant menu or in an English-language Chinese cookbook. It does, however, appear from time to time in Chinese-language cookbooks and on cooking shows, sometimes involving as few as three ingredients. 

In China, Coke and other sodas hold a higher prestige than they do in the US. About 5 years ago, when I first visited Beijing, some relatives took me out to a pretty lavish restaurant for my first Peking duck experience. After drink orders were taken, the head waiter returned to the table with a wine cart. With a flourish, he brandished a bottle in his right arm for inspection, which, for course, turned out to be Coke instead Bordeaux. 

I have also attended banquets and Chinese New Year dinners where bottles of 7-Up and Pepsi were sitting like centerpieces in the middle of white table cloth-covered tables. And I have gone up and down the wine aisles of Chinese supermarkets, only to find that it was almost impossible to buy just a bottle of wine. You always got a special gift with purchase. Domestic reds and whites were often packaged in cellophane with bottles of...you guessed it...Coke or Sprite. (That is, if they weren't already packaged with imitation Nalgenes, thermoses, rice bowls, or even beach blankets.) 

This is all to say that the cult of Coke in China is pretty strong. Which paves the way for Coca-Cola chicken wings to become a popular dish for home cooks. The preparation method is very similar to that of soy-sauce chicken, a common Cantonese dish. (I wouldn't be surprised if this dish was actually created because some person, or some million persons, who figured that adding Coke was a good way to change up their soy-sauce chicken.) 

Cantonese soy sauce chicken wings are braised with soy sauce, garlic, and ginger, and occasionally cinnamon and star anise. For Coca-Cola chicken wings, we just use soy sauce, rice wine, and Coke in the braising liquid. That's it. What you end up with, after 15 to 20 minutes of braising, is a nice syrupy glaze. It's not overwhelmingly sweet, or overwhelmingly salty. It tastes a tiny bit like Coke, but even that is very subtle. Toward the end, I add some chopped scallions and freshly ground black pepper to enhance the flavor, but really, this minimalist dish is still perfectly fine without aromatics. 

Even better than using regular Coke is Mexican Coke, which uses real sugar, if you can find it in your local grocery store or bodega. 

_____________________________ 

Coca-Cola Chicken Wings 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

2 pounds chicken wings, wings and drummettes separated 
1/4 cup soy sauce 
2 tablespoons canola oil 
2 tablespoons dry sherry or Chinese rice wine 
3/4 cup Coca-Cola (not diet or anything flavored!) 
2 scallions, chopped 
A few pinches of freshly ground black pepper 
Instructions 

Put the chicken wings in a large bowl and pour half of the soy sauce on top. Turn the wings so they are well-coated and allow them to marinate for 10 to 15 minutes at room temperature. 
Heat a wok or large deep skillet over medium-high heat. Sear the chicken wings until they are golden brown on each side but not cooked through, about 3 minutes each side. Pour in the other half of the soy sauce, the sherry, and the Coke and bring the liquid to a simmer. Simmer the wings uncovered for 15 to 20 minutes, until the liquid is reduced to a glaze. 
Season the chicken with black pepper. Transfer the chicken to a plate, garnish with scallions, and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Appetizers, Chicken, Chinese, Recipes, Favorites 
Share 
 63 Likes 
← Third Sunday in JuneZucchini Noodles with Pan-fried Tofu → 



START RECIPE

Cold Sesame Noodles 
July 28, 2011 
Cold Sesame Noodles 
Last night I had the pleasure of being a guest chef at the Ted and Amy Supper Club in Fort Greene. The theme was Tiki Summer Feast, so Kara set up long tables in her lovely backyard for the 12 guests and cranked up some tiki lounge music. I did a variety of shareable plates, including hoisin wings, Chinese barbecued ribs, and potstickers filled with shredded braised duck leg (which turned out to be a huge favorite!) 

The meatless dish I served was a big bowl of cold sesame noodles, which also got emptied pretty quickly.  I first blogged about these noodles last summer and have made them every few weeks since. A quick dish that requires minimal cooking (just boiling the pasta), it's a lifesaver during dinner parties, when the oven and stove top are needed for everything else. But it's also a filling and tasty dinner for one or two people. 

Since there's no end in sight for hot, sticky weather, I thought I would re-share this for your summer night meals, in or out of doors. If you're not vegetarian and want to fancy it up, try adding some prosciutto, bacon bits...or even shredded duck! 

Cold sesame noodles are essential for the summer. They make great picnic food. They make great sides for cookouts. They are the same savory-sweet kind you get from the Chinese takeout, with less grease and no MSG. And they require very little prep time and don't even have to be reheated out of the fridge (within a reasonable number of days, of course.) 

For the noodles themselves, I like to use Chinese egg noodles, soba, or spaghetti. They should be round, not too thin or too thick (the width of a spaghetti strang is perfect.) I find that regular all-wheat Chinese noodles are usually too spongey for this sauce, rendering the dish into somewhat of a gloppy mess. Same with rice noodles. Egg noodles, soba, or spaghetti hold their firmness the best, and allow the sauce to coat the noodles instead of seeping in. 

I also like to sauté my garlic and ginger just a little, before tossing it in with the sauce. I'd rather have fragrant garlic and ginger instead of raw, and that extra step of sautéeing for 30 seconds makes a huge difference. 


(Check out my new book The Chinese Takeout Cookbook for many more Chinese restaurant favorites!) 

_________________________ 

Cold Sesame Noodles 
Serves 4 to 6 

Ingredients 

12 ounces dried spaghetti or Chinese egg noodles 
2 tablespoons peanut oil 
2 teaspoons minced garlic 
2 teaspoons grated ginger 
1 cucumber, peeled and julienned 
2 carrot, peeled and julienned 
2 teaspoons white sesame seeds 
2 scallions, green parts only, thinly sliced 
Sauce: 

3 tablespoons Chinese sesame paste (or 3 tablespoons tahini with an extra teaspoon of sesame oil) 
2 tablespoons smooth peanut butter 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon sesame oil 
2 tablespoons Chinese rice vinegar 
2 teaspoons chili paste 
2 tablespoons sugar 
½ teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper (optional) 
Instructions 

Bring a pot of water to boil and cook egg noodles or spaghetti until al dente, or the minimum amount of time according to package instructions. Drain immediately, rinse with cold water, and drain again. Toss with 1 tablespoon of the peanut oil and set aside. 
Heat the other tablespoon of peanut oil in a small pan over medium heat. Gently cook the minced garlic and grated ginger until just fragrant, about 30 to 40 seconds. Remove from the heat and set aside. 
Prepare the sauce: In a medium bowl, combine the sesame paste, peanut butter, soy sauce, sesame oil, rice vinegar, chili paste, sugar, and optional Sichuan pepper. Add 3 tablespoons of water and whisk until the mixture is smooth. Stir in the cooked garlic and ginger. 
Pour the sauce over the noodles, add the cucumbers and carrots, and toss. Transfer to large bowl or deep serving dish and sprinkle the sesame seeds and scallions on top. You can serve the sesame noodles at room temperature or chill in the fridge for 1 to 2 hours before serving. 
Note: Leftovers will keep in the fridge for up to 3 or 4 days. 

In Recipes Tags American Chinese, Chinese, Global Chinese, Noodles, Recipes, Vegetarian, Favorites 
Share 
 31 Likes 
← Chicken Tikka MasalaEdamame Fried Rice → 



START RECIPE

Crispy Kale and Mushroom Fried Rice + Giveaway 
April 15, 2013 
Crispy Kale and Mushroom Fried Rice 
What's your go-to comfort food? 

As someone who grew up eating a lot of Chinese dishes served family-style, I like to whip up fried rice at home on a regular basis. It's easy and oh-so-versatile. For special occasions like Chinese New Year, I like making Yangzhou fried rice, loaded with roast pork and shrimp. But most of the time I just like making a vegetarian fried rice using fresh finds from the farmer's market. 

Recently I was ed by BlogHer to develop a recipe for RiceSelect™, which has a wide range of rice available, including brown rice, sushi rice, arborio rice, and American basmati rice. Since I love working with all types of rice, and making dishes from around the world like biryani, risotto, coconut rice, and rice pudding, I was more than happy to participate. (You can visit RiceSelect's site to find out more about its distinct types of rice and the many dishes you can make with each kind.) 

For the program, I tested out RiceSelect's Jasmati® rice, a long grain American grown jasmine rice. And what I really wanted to do was a fried rice using kale and fresh shiitake mushrooms from the Union Square Greenmarket. The inspiration actually came from an amazing kale salad I recently had at neighborhood Italian restaurant: instead of just raw kale with a light dressing (delicious in itself), it also had bits of fried kale scattered throughout. (Heaven in a bowl, if you  me. I've been thinking about it for weeks.) So I wanted to recreate that experience in a fried rice dish. 

crispy-kale-fried-rice-5 
crispy-kale-fried-rice-9 
crispy-kale-fried-rice-3 
crispy-kale-fried-rice 
I started off by cooking up some Jasmati rice and leaving it in the fridge overnight to cool (you can also do it in a few hours if you're in a hurry.) The next night, I stir-fried some scallions and ginger in the pan, then added the finely chopped mushrooms and kale and kept moving the kale around until it cooked through and got nice and crispy. Finally, I added the rice with some hoisin sauce and soy sauce, then added salt and pepper at the end to taste. 

This crispy kale and mushroom fried rice takes a minute or two longer than most fried rice dishes, but only because of the added time to get the kale extra crispy. Otherwise it's a very simple dish that's easy to prepare at home for a side dish or a light meal. And the Jasmati rice — with a sweet aroma, soft texture, and subtle nutty flavor like Thai jasmine rice, only grown in the U.S. — was perfect for it. 

Giveaway: How do you like to incorporate rice into your family meals? What are your favorite rice dishes to make? Each comment will automatically be entered for $100 Visa gift card!  UPDATE: Congrats to Steph for winning the $100 Visa gift card! ____________________________________ 

Crispy Kale and Mushroom Fried Rice 

Serves 4 as part of a multi-course meal 

3 cups cooked RiceSelect Jasmati rice, cooled 
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil 
2 scallions, thinly sliced 
2 teaspoons minced or grated ginger 
1/4 pound fresh shiitake mushrooms, stems removed and caps finely chopped 
1/2 pound kale, thick stems removed and leaves finely chopped 
1 tablespoon hoisin sauce 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 
Break up the cooled cooked rice into smaller clumps. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil and swirl to coat the base. Add the ginger and scallions and cook for about 30 seconds, until just aromatic. 
Add the mushrooms and kale. Stir-fry for about 3 minutes, until the mushrooms are cooked through and the kale is starting to get crispy. 
Add the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil to pan. Toss in the rice and break up any remaining clumps with a spatula. Continue to stir-fry until the rice starts to turn golden, about 2 minutes. Add the hoisin sauce and soy sauce and stir until well-mixed with the rice. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Transfer the rice to a large communal bowl or individual bowls and serve. 
____________________________________ 

Sweepstakes Rules: No duplicate comments. 

You may receive (2) total entries by selecting from the following entry methods: 

a. Leave a comment in response to the sweepstakes prompt on this post b:Tweet (public message) about this promotion: including exactly the following unique term in your tweet message: SweepstakesEntry: and leave the URL to that tweet in a comment on this post c: Blog about this promotion, including a disclosure that you are receiving a sweepstakes entry in exchange for writing the blog post, and leave the URL to that post in a comment on this post d: For those with no Twitter or blog, read the official rules to learn about an alternate form of entry. 

This giveaway is open to US Residents age 18 or older. Winners will be selected via random draw, and will be notified by e-mail. You have 72 hours to get back to me, otherwise a new winner will be selected. 

The Official Rules are available here. 

This sweepstakes runs from 4/15/2013-5/15/2013 

Be sure to visit the sponsor's brand page on BlogHer.com where you can read other bloggers reviews and find more chances to win! 

In Recipes Tags Giveaways, Kale, Mushroom, Recipes, Vegetarian 
Share 
 12 Likes 
← BostonThai Carrot and Mint Salad → 



START RECIPE

Dan Dan Noodles 
August 8, 2011 
dan-dan-noodles-2 
Dan dan noodles is one of those quintessential Sichuan dishes that you must try at least once if you're a fan of anything spicy. The chili-laced vinegar and sesame sauce is quite possibly one of the finest sauces that ground pork or beef can ever be cooked with. 

Now, if you were to have dan dan noodles in Sichuan province, the noodles would come swimming in a chili-laced broth that is almost impossible for mortals (non-Sichuan-natives) to slurp. I like to do a less saucy version that tones the heat down slightly while still maintaining flavor. The noodles in this recipe are spicy enough for someone who doesn't mind a little heat in their food. But please feel free to adjust the amount of chili oil to your preferences. And slurping is, of course, encouraged. 

The first time I ever had dan dan mian was years ago in New York's East Village. It was one of those insanely hot and muggy July days, and my friend Shar and I were walking on St. Mark's Place, sweaty even in tank tops and skirts. 

Where do you want to have lunch?, I ed. 

Anywhere with AC, was the reply. 

We ducked into the St. Mark's branch of Grand Sichuan and sure enough, there was a generous amount of AC, along with a particularly surly waitress. We ordered quickly just to get her to go away. 

We ate about 4 or 5 dishes, but I don't remember any except the dan dan noodles and cold cucumber salad. I remember the dan dan noodles because it was one of the spiciest dishes had ever tasted, at that point. I remember the cucumbers because, despite also being spicy, they tamed the heat in my mouth from the dan dan noodles. 

I gulped about 4 or 5 glasses of water during the meal. The food was actually pretty good, but I, being a newbie to Sichuan food, couldn't fully appreciate the complexity of the Sichuan peppercorn. Years later, having had many 4-alarm Sichuan meals, I actually miss and crave the mala sensation (numbing spiciness) if I don't eat Sichuan for a week or more. 

You can find dan dan mian at almost all Sichuan restaurants. Some people have it as an appetizer, others have it during the meal instead of rice. (I, for one, always get rice if I'm also ordering dishes bathed in a spicy sauce, like mapo tofu or mouth-watering chicken. Some friends of mine don't mind piling heat on top of heat, those brave fools.) 

Dan dan noodles are also easy to make at home. Even the American home, now that the Sichuan peppercorn ban is lifted. Of course, this dish can always be toned down by adding less Sichuan pepper, but trust me...mala heat is addictive. Just make sure to have some water by your side. 

__________________________ 

Dan Dan Noodles 
Serves 4 as part of a multi-course meal, or 2 to 3 as a single dish 

Ingredients 

8 ounces ground pork or beef 
1 tablespoon peanut oil 
2 teaspoons minced garlic (about 2 cloves) 
1 teaspoon minced ginger 
2 scallions, white and green parts chopped 
2 tablespoons chopped Sichuan preserved vegetable (optional) 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1/2 teaspoon salt, or salt to taste 
8 ounces dried Chinese egg noodles 
1 handful dry-roasted peanuts, finely chopped 
Sauce: 

1/2 cup chicken stock or water 
1/4 cup soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese sesame paste or tahini 
2 tablespoon Chinese black rice vinegar, or substitute good quality balsamic vinegar 
3 tablespoons chili oil (adjust according to your tolerance of spiciness) 
1 tablespoon sesame oil 
2 teaspoons sugar 
1/2 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper 
Instructions 

Bring a large pot of water to boil and cook the noodles according to package instructions. Drain the noodles, rinse under cold water, and drain again. Transfer the noodles to a serving dish. 
Prepare the sauce: In a medium bowl, whisk together the chicken stock, soy sauce, sesame paste, vinegar, chili oil, sesame oil, sugar, and Sichuan pepper. Pour the sauce over the noodles and toss so the sauce is evenly distributed. Set aside. 
Heat a large wok or skillet over medium-high heat. Add the oil and swirl to coat the base and sides. Add the garlic, ginger, white parts of the scallions, and optional Sichuan preserved vegetable and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the meat and stir-fry until the meat is a little crispy on the outside and no longer pink. Add rice wine to deglaze the pan. Season with salt to taste. 
Spoon the cooked meat mixture over the noodles, sprinkle the chopped scallions greens and chopped peanuts on top, and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Chinese, Noodles, Pork, Recipes, Sichuan 
Share 
 12 Likes 
← Fu Run in FlushingChicken Tikka Masala → 



START RECIPE

Garlic Beef and Asparagus Stir-fry 
March 24, 2013 
Garlic Beef and Asparagus Stir-fry 
Spring weather has been slow to arrive this month. Yet I've been craving spring veggies like crazy. In the coming weeks, asparagus will start popping up in the farmers markets, so I thought I would post a stir-fry to get you in the mood for warmer temps ahead. 

As I've mentioned before, lately I've been testing out sauces from Soy Vay, with whom I started a partnership  in January. This month I decided to try out their recipe for a garlic beef and asparagus stir-fry using their Hoisin Garlic. Here are some discoveries from the Appetite for China test kitchen: 

Doubling as a marinade, this is one workhorse of a sauce. I altered the original recipe a bit, marinating the beef in about 2 tablespoons of Hoisin Garlic to allow the flavors to seep into the meat before cooking. The result was incredibly tender beef: the sauce takes the place of my usual meat marinade of soy sauce, rice wine, and cornstarch. 
It's a little less concentrated than other hoisin sauces I've used, which makes it easier to stir in the pan. This is especially helpful for this recipe, because the flank steak cooks so quickly, and you don't want to overcook the beef before the sauce gets evenly mixed. 
The flavor is slightly sweeter, which balances out the savoriness from the soybeans. No need to add an extra bit of sugar to your sauce, which I often do. 
It's widely available. This is a huge plus. I often get emails from readers and students from my classes ing where to get good Asian ingredients when they can't get to a Chinatown conveniently. (And most other American-made hoisin sauces I've tried are very lackluster.) The Hoisin Garlic sauce is available at Whole Foods and a ton of other big supermarkets. 
garlic-beef-3 
All in all, this is a great single bottle sauce that can have you whipping up a delicious stir-fry in almost no time, even if you have no other Asian sauces in the pantry. 

After I stir-fried the beef, I just removed it from the pan, stir-fried and steamed the asparagus in the same pan, and brought everything together in the end along with the sauce and cashews. 

I served the dish over white rice, but it would go equally well with some cold sesame noodles or scallion pancakes on the side. 

Garlic Beef and Aspara 
_____________________________________ 

Garlic Beef and Asparagus Stir-fry 

Serves 4 

1 tablespoon vegetable or peanut oil 
1 pound flank steak, cut against the grain into 1/4-inch-thick slices 
1/2 cup Soy Vay Hoisin Garlic Sauce and Marinade 
1 pound asparagus, ends removed and cut into 1-inch lengths 
Salt and pepper to taste 
1 cup roasted, unsalted cashews 
In a medium bowl, combine the flank steak and 2 tablespoons of the Hoisin Garlic sauce. Allow the steak to marinate for 10 to 15 minutes at room temperature. 
Heat the oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the flank steak and stir-fry for 2 to 3 minutes, until mostly brown but not fully cooked. Remove and set aside. 
Add the asparagus to the wok. Stir-fry for about 1 minute, then add 1/2 cup water and cover with a lid. Allow the asparagus to steam for another 1 to 2 minutes until tender-crisp and the water is gone. 
Return the beef to the wok. Add the remaining amount of hoisin garlic sauce and stir until everything is well-mixed and the beef is cooked through, about 1 minute more. Adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Stir in the cashews. Transfer to a serving dish and serve with rice or noodles. 
Adapted from Soy Vay. 

________________________________ 

Disclosure: I am a Soy Vay® Ambassador and Soy Vay® products were provided to me by Soy Vay®. 

In Partnerships Tags Beef, Recipes, Soy Vay 
Share 
 5 Likes 
← Ginger Milk TeaSpring Cooking Classes in New York → 



START RECIPE

Garlic Lamb Stir-fry with Broccoli 
April 18, 2008 
garlic-lamb-2.jpg 
Until 3 or 4 years ago, I had an aversion to lamb. My father hated lamb, so we never ate it at home. My first experience with lamb (that I can remember) was at a Greek restaurant in Boston when I was a teenager: I ate a decidedly not fresh hunk of meat that left a horrible aftertaste for hours. After that, I swore off lamb. And Greek food. 

Fortunately, after college, I decided I needed to expand my culinary horizons. In The Man Who Ate Everything, Jeffrey Steingarten writes about how moderate exposure to hated foods is the key to getting ride of aversions. He creates a 6-step program to dealing with a bunch of his own food phobias, including kimchi, Indian desserts, and yes, Greek food, by trying everything 8 to 10 times. I can't say my own culinary enlightenment was this organized, or steadfastly recorded for publication. But I do know that over the years of going out of my comfort zone I have come to love anything Greek I used to loathe, including olives and feta. And especially lamb. 

garlic-lamb-3.jpg 
Lamb has become, quite possibly, an addiction. Cooking at home or dining out, I can't help but crave the gamey taste of this meat. (Of course, Steingarten also writes that repeatedly eating the same foods is also as bad as specifically avoiding certain foods. Let's hope I'm not one of those people.) 

I've already shared my Mongolian Lamb Stir-fry, adapted from Mark Bittman, which highlights cumin with lamb. Now for another great flavor...garlic. A few chopped cloves, Sichuan peppercorn, and soy sauce does wonders for a simple lamb stir-fry. 

And fortunately in Beijing it's easy to find other cuts of lamb like thinly sliced fatty lamb for hot pot, and all those muscle-y parts good for braising. Heck, I can even buy a whole lamb if I wanted to. But I don't, since freezer space is limited and precious, and my inner Buddhist would balk at the idea. Well, at least I can satiate my cravings every few days with a small amount of lamb. 

___________________________________________ 

Garlic Lamb Stir-fry with Broccoli 
Serves 4 as part of a multi-course meal 

1 pound lean lamb, thinly sliced 
3 tablespoons dark soy sauce 
4 tablespoons peanut oil 
1 tablespoon rice wine or sherry 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon crushed Sichuan pepper (substitute crushed red pepper if unavailable) 
3 garlic cloves, finely chopped 
1 cup broccoli florets 
4 scallions, chopped 
1 tablespoon rice vinegar 
1 tablespoon sesame oil 
Lay the slices of lamb in a shallow dish. In a bowl, mix together 2 tablespoons of the soy sauce, 2 tablespoons of the peanut oil, the rice wine/sherry, salt, and Sichuan pepper. Pour the mixture over lamb, and turn to coat. Let marinate for 30 minutes. 
In a wok, heat remaining 2 tablespoons of peanut oil until smoking, then add the lamb and garlic. Stir-fry for 2 minutes just until lamb changes color on both sides, then remove from wok and set aside. 
Leave 1 tablespoon of oil in wok and pour out excess. Add the broccoli and scallions and stir-fry for 2 minutes. Add the rice vinegar and remaining soy sauce and cook for another 1 minute. Return the lamb to the wok, add sesame oil, and stir-fry for another 1 to 2 minutes, until the lamb, broccoli, and sauce are thoroughly mixed. Serve immediately. 
Adapted from The Book of Chinese Cooking 



In Recipes Tags Lamb, Recipes 
Share 
 5 Likes 
← Coconut Milk Shrimp, and My Hard Drive HeartacheMacarons from...Mister Donut? → 



START RECIPE

General Tso's Chicken 
August 29, 2011 
general-tsos-chicken-high 
This recipe for General Tso's chicken has been the most popular on this site since I first posted it in 2009. Month after month it continues to be the most viewed and searched for recipe here.  I love that so many of you, presumably, have visited on a mission to replicate this tasty dish from a favorite take-out. 

Over the past few months, I've been testing and retesting this recipe for my cookbook, and want to share a new revised version. I've loved all your feedback and incorporated some changes that'll make this General Tso's even better. The sauce, for example, has a couple of new ingredients to round out the tomato base. 

The biggest improvement is in the frying process. The previous recipe resulted in really nice crispy chicken, but I think this new recipe one-ups its predecessor. After countless hours frying chicken in front of the stove, I've found that the key marinade ingredient for crispy chicken is...egg whites, which allow the cornstarch to adhere to the meat, without lending too much of an eggy flavor. And, as one commenter suggested, tossing the cornstarch with a little salt and pepper is great for adding more flavor to the fried chicken. You can also take a few extra minutes to fry the chicken again for another 30 seconds, an optional step to get very crispy chicken, identical to the take-out kind. 

(Update: If you've enjoyed this General Tso's Chicken recipe, check out many more Chinese restaurant favorites in my new cookbook The Chinese Takeout Cookbook: Quick and Easy Dishes to Prepare at Home.) 

-------------------------------------------- 

Almost nobody in Hunan has ever heard of General Tso's Chicken, the most famous Hunan dish in America. Like many other American-Chinese favorites, the roots to China are vague but interesting. 

You may know the dish as General Tsuo's, or Tzo's or Tao's or some other variation. You couldn't really pronounce the name, but order it anyway at Panda Garden because of its addictiveness. Who cares if it isn't really Chinese food, like your ABC friend hinted? 

General Tso's Chicken became popular in America via some enterprisingly Taiwanese chefs who opened Hunan restaurants in New York in the 1970s. Hunan cuisine is traditionally very spicy, full of smoky chilis and pickled vegetables. But to appeal to American diners, the chefs started deep-frying, and sweetening the sauces. They improved upon each other's crispy chicken dishes until they got a crunchy, sweet, sour, and mildly spicy coating. You can read more about the history in Fuchsia Dunlop's NYT article, or Jennifer 8. Lee's The Fortune Cookie Chronicles: both writers trace the original General Tso's back to Taiwan. 

general-tso-1 
I first tried making the Taiwanese version from Dunlop's Revolutionary Chinese Cookbook: Recipes from Hunan Province. But the recipe calls for starch in the marinade and sauce, instead of as an outside coating, which doesn't create a create the crunchiness I was expecting. I wasn't the only one who was disappointed by the original version. On trying the chicken dish in Taiwan, Jennifer 8. Lee wrote, The dominant flavor was soy sauce. That was followed by chopped garlic and a kick from spicy chili peppers. The chicken was appropriately chewy, but there was no crispy, fried batter coating. Where was the sweetness? The tanginess? Instead, it had a strong salty flavor. 

The older version is like the stodgy artiste who refuses to waver to popular opinion. Which is respectable. But there's a reason Americanized General Tso's is so good. It's brash, super crisp, and sweet. Like pop music, it just hooks you. 

So here is my altered General Tso's Chicken after cooking in many, many times. I prefer to use boneless chicken thighs instead of chicken breast for a juicier bite. (Dark meat is juicier and much more tender than white meat, and contrary to widespread belief, not much higher in fat.) Chicken stock adds a bit more flavor, but if you don’t have any handy feel free to substitute water. Sauce may taste a little tomato-y on its own, but trust me, mixed with the fried chicken it will taste positively delicious. 

The sauce, with tomato paste, chicken broth, vinegar, and hoisin sauce, thickens up quite nicely in the wok. It’s sweet but not overly so, with a mild kick and smoky flavor from the chilis and a good amount of tanginess. Meanwhile, the cornstarch coating results in a brash, proudly crisp exterior. It may not be authentically Hunan, but there’s a reason it continues to be such a beloved dish in the U.S. 

_______________________________ 

General Tso's Chicken 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken thighs, sliced into 1-inch cubes 
1 1/2 cups cornstarch 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
3 cups peanut or vegetable oil for frying, plus 1 tablespoon for stir-frying 
8 dried whole red chilis, or substitute 1/4 teaspoon dried red chili flakes 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon white sesame seeds, for garnish 
Scallions, green parts thinly sliced, for garnish 
Marinade 

1 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 egg whites 
Sauce: 

1/4 cup chicken stock, or substitute water 
1 1/2 tablespoons tomato paste 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon rice vinegar 
1 teaspoon hoisin sauce 
1 teaspoon chili paste 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
Instructions 

Prepare the marinade: In a large bowl, combine the soy sauce, rice wine, and egg whites. Coat the chicken to the marinade mixture and let sit for 10 minutes. 
Prepare the sauce: In a small bowl, combine the chicken stock, tomato paste, sugar, soy sauce, rice vinegar, hoisin sauce, chili paste, sesame oil, sugar, and the 1 teaspoon of cornstarch. Stir until the sugar and cornstarch are dissolved. Set the sauce aside. 
In a large bowl or deep plate, toss the 1 1/2 cups cornstarch with the salt and pepper. Coat the marinated chicken in the cornstarch and shake off any excess before frying. 
Heat the 3 cups of peanut or vegetable oil in your wok until it registers 350°F on an instant-read oil thermometer. Working in 2 or 3 batches, add the first batch of chicken cubes and fry until golden brown on the outside and cooked through, about 4 to 5 minutes. Remove the chicken with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Repeat with the rest of the chicken. 
Drain the oil into a heatproof container and save for discarding. Wipe the wok with a paper towel to remove any brown bits, but don’t wash. 
Reheat the wok or skillet over medium-high heat. Add another 1 tablespoon of oil and swirl to coat the base and sides. Add the dried chilis and garlic to the wok and stir-fry until just fragrant, about 20 seconds. Pour in the sauce mixture and stir until thickened, about 1 to 2 minutes. 
Return the chicken to the wok and stir well to coat with sauce. Transfer the chicken to a serving dish. Garnish with white sesame seeds and scallions. Serve with white rice and vegetables. 
Recipe first published March 3, 2009. Updated August 30, 2011. 



In Recipes Tags American Chinese, Chicken, Chinese, Global Chinese, Recipes, Favorites 
Share 
 98 Likes 
← Hong Kong Local Foods PosterChinese Corn and Cabbage Soup → 



START RECIPE

Ginger Hoisin Chicken 
April 24, 2013 
Ginger Hoisin Chicken 
When it comes to dinner on a weeknight, I often have about 10 different ideas in my head at a given time. Should I roast a chicken or make a quick pasta? A tried-and-true recipe like fried rice or go for something I just bookmarked on Pinterest? Vegetarian or an all-out pork fest? Usually my choices are so wildly different, and all over the place, that even I baffle myself. 

Cursed with the paradox of choice, I'd sometimes take so long to make a decision about what to cook that I'm too hungry to start cooking. Or the supermarkets are close by the time I finally settle on something to make. So I just end up ordering takeout. (Yes, cookbook authors do resort to takeout semi-regularly. At least this one does.) 

Fortunately, a few months ago I started a partnership with Soy Vay® and currently have a pantry stocked full of their sauces, so this weeknight dilemma has been occurring less and less. After I made this Garlic Beef and Asparagus Stir-fry last month, their Hoisin Garlic Sauce and Marinade has been on heavy rotation in my kitchen. I'd use it for stir-frying tofu, noodles, shrimp, and chicken. Especially chicken. 

Recently I endured a 2-week long case of the flu and had stocked up on ginger for tea and soup. With some extra ginger on hand, I decided to make a ginger hoisin chicken stir-fry. As with the cooking the garlic beef, the Hoisin Garlic sauce was the only thing I needed for the marinade. (It made the meat very tender, without needing to marinate it in cornstarch.) With some grated ginger, onions, broccoli, and a few extra flavorings for the sauce, this turned out to be another very easy and delicious meal that satisfied the hunger pangs. 

The heartiness of the hoisin sauce, combined with the clean, sharp flavor of ginger, was exactly what I was craving. 

I wish most decisions could be this easy. 

ginger-hoisin-chicken 
______________________________ 

Ginger Hoisin Chicken 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breast or thighs, cut into thin slices 
1/4 cup Soy Vay Hoisin Garlic Sauce and Marinade 
3 cups broccoli florets 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
1 1/2 tablespoons minced or grated ginger 
1 medium yellow onion, diced 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon rice vinegar 
2 teaspoons sesame oil 
Instructions 

In a large bowl, combine the chicken with 2 tablespoons of the Hoisin Garlic sauce. Allow the chicken to marinate for 10 minutes at room temperature. 
Meanwhile, bring a pot of water to boil. Cook the broccoli for 2 minutes, then drain and set aside. (Tip: If you want the broccoli to maintain a bright green hue, add about 1/4 teaspoon baking soda to the boiling water before adding the broccoli.) 
Heat the oil in wok or large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the chicken, spread it evenly around the base of the pan, and allow it to sear on one side untouched for 1 to 2 minutes. Then stir-fry for another 1 minute, until it begins to lose its pink hue on both sides. Add the ginger and onions and cook for another 2 minutes. 
Add the remaining 2 tablespoons of Hoisin Garlic sauce, the soy sauce, rice vinegar, and sesame oil. Stir until everything is well coated. Add the broccoli and give everything one last stir. Transfer to a large plate and serve. 
Disclosure: I am a Soy Vay® Ambassador and Soy Vay® products were provided to me by Soy Vay®. 

In Partnerships Tags Chicken, Soy Vay 
Share 
 4 Likes 
← Appetite for China Cooking VideosSichuan Wontons + New Video! → 



START RECIPE

Ginger and Scallion Steamed Crab 
April 7, 2009 
chinese-crab-2.jpg 
Pity the other dishes at the dinner table when crab is served. Everyone is so focused on getting to every last bit of scrumptious crab meat, and slurping with pleasure, that by the time they're done, all the other food has become cold. And anti-climatic. 

Like whole lobster and monster sushi rolls, crab is not a first date food. It's messy, and I have yet to meet anyone who looks attractive eating it. That said, if you want to make a great easy dish for intimate friends and family members (a.k.a. people you don't need to impress), give this crab recipe a try. 

I learned this recipe from my grandpa, who loves crab so much he eats it once a week (apparently fresh crab at the wet market is even cheaper in Hong Kong than it is in mainland China.) And his method requires little more than ginger, scallions, and a cup of just-boiled salted water. No soy sauce, corn starch, or even rice wine needed. 

Just be sure to get your crab crackers and picks ready. 

_________________________________ 

More Chinese seafood recipes to try: 

Chinese Steamed Fish with Black Bean and Ginger Sauce  

Dragon Well Tea Shrimp (Longjing Xiaren) 

Coconut Milk Shrimp 

_________________________________ 

Ginger and Scallion Steamed Crab 

Serves 4 

2 pounds whole crab 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
1 small piece ginger, thinly sliced 
1 stalk scallion, cut to 2-inch lengths 
1 cup water 
2 teaspoons salt 
Clean and separate the crab into pieces: rinse well under cold water, carefully removing the yellow gills or spongy insides. Twist apart the legs and claws. With the blunt side of the cleaver, crack the legs and larger front claws and set aside. (This makes the crab easier to eat after it's cooked.) 
In a small pot, bring water to a boil. Remove from heat and stir in salt. 
Heat oil in the wok over medium-high heat. Stir-fry ginger and scallions until aromatic, about 1 minutes. Add crab pieces and stir-fry for another minute.  Add salted water, then cover the wok and let the crab steam for 10 minutes. Transfer to serving dish. 
In Recipes Tags Cantonese, Chinese, Crab, Healthy, Recipes, Seafood 
Share 
 2 Likes 
← Mulberries!Huangshan Food and Mountain Biking → 



START RECIPE

Hong Kong Noodles with Shallot Oil 
February 2, 2017 

Wow, what a crazy past few months we've had. There are so many things going on news-wise that it's been hard to even think about blogging about food, and going about business as usual. A few people seem to find ways to do it, but as a news junkie who has been fascinated by politics and civic action since 12th grade government class, I've been struggling a bit. How do I blog about dinner while paying respect to the enormous changes around us? When seemingly everything around you is politicized, from farms to pizza to bodegas, is a bowl of noodles just a bowl of noodles anymore? 

One of the biggest debates has centered around immigration, which is something I'll address in a future post. In the meantime, I'll just say this: Regardless of your personal politics, everyone in the US has been positively impacted by immigration. Without immigration, our agricultural production and food culture would be in a sorry state. About 99.9% (my own estimate, feel free to disagree) of everything we eat comes from immigrants, and this diversity should be celebrated, not seen as a threat to the very fabric of American society. Of course, given the crowd that usually comes to Asian food blogs, I might just be preaching to the choir, but that's perfectly fine too. :) 

With that said, happy Chinese New Year! Recently Phaidon sent me a copy of China: The Cookbook, a beautiful 700-page tome that celebrates dishes from around the country. I wanted to zero in on noodles, which they symbolize longevity (of life...and of democracy?) and eaten at practically every meal during the New Year. And because I was craving noodles.  


These shallot oil noodles look super simple, but wow, words CANNOT describe how good they are. I made them three days in a row and always chastised myself for making too little after finishing my last bite. 

You basically cook the minced fatty pork in a bit of oil (the original recipe calls for fatback but I used bacon because it's much easier to find), remove and set aside, then heat shallots and garlic to perfume the oil. Cook some noodles, toss the noodles with the flavored oil, soy sauce, fish sauce, and the crispy bacon, and serve. Chinese egg noodles are the best choice if you can find them fresh, but in lieu of fresh noodles I've always found that spaghetti or linguine work way better than most of the dried Chinese noodles available in Chinese markets here. 

_________________________________ 

Hong Kong Noodles with Shallot Oil 

Serves 2 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
2 ounces bacon or pancetta, finely diced 
4 shallots, quartered and lightly crushed 
4 cloves garlic, lightly crushed 
11 ounces fresh egg noodles or 6 ounces dried egg noodles, spaghetti, or linguine 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon fish sauce 
2 scallions, green parts minced for garnish (optional) 
Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the bacon or pancetta and pan-fry from 4 to 5 minutes, until crispy. Remove the crispy pork and drain on a plate lined with paper towel. 
Add the shallots and garlic to the pan and pan-fry over medium heat for 3 minutes until slightly brown. Discard the shallots and garlic and transfer the flavored oil to a bowl.  
Bring a pot of water to a boil. Add the noodles and cook according to package instructions until al dente. Drain and toss the noodles with the shallot oil, soy sauce, and fish sauce. Sprinkle and crispy pork and scallion greens on top and serve.  
Adapted from China: The Cookbook from Phaidon 

Share 
 17 Likes 
← Japanese Beef and Potato Stew (Nikujaga) / Trying out Kamikoto Stir-Fried Beef with Black Pepper + Anolon/Cookboo 



START RECIPE

Hot and Sour Chicken Noodle Soup 
February 9, 2010 
hot-sour-noodle-soup-4.jpg 
As much as I love to cook, I never have time to plan weekday lunches. After a frazzled morning at the desk, trying to get just one more bit of work done, I am ravenous by 1 or 2pm. My lame attempts at breakfast (usually Wheatables and fruit gummies) do not suffice. 

I storm out of the building in a mad search for anything edible on the street. Unfortunately, other than mediocre $10 sandwiches and faux-Mexican, there is nothing except Safeway and Whole Foods. So I go for supermarket soup. Soup is filling. Soup is warming. Soup is cheap (well, not at Whole Foods). But sooner or later, you get sick of Chunky Chicken Noodle and Spicy Southwestern Bean. I still craved a piping hot bowl of broth-and-protein in the early afternoon, but needed a change. 

This week I decided to add a Chinese take-out touch to chicken noodle soup. And make a big batch on Sunday night. While I still like the hot and sour soup I posted two year ago, this one is much, much more filling. And if you are low on Asian pantry staples like canned bamboo shoots and lily buds, you can still make this. I went to the market and bought chicken breast, mushrooms, and scallions, et voilà.  

The hot in the soup title usually comes from white pepper, but in this instance, adding chili sesame oil worked perfectly. White vinegar was a little too strong for this soup, but cider vinegar gave it a mellow zing. Nevertheless, use the vinegar sparingly, or be prepared to leave your windows open to air out the kitchen. And might I repeat: make a big batch. Your weekday exhausted and starving self will appreciate it. 

This week, at least, I was able spend lunch relaxing with a good book instead of speed-walking to Safeway. 

___________________________________ 

Hot and Sour Chicken Noodle Soup 

Serves 4 

1/2 pound chicken breast, preferably skin on 
1 handful shiitake mushrooms, stems discarded, sliced 
2 medium-sized shallots, thinly sliced 
1 tsp grated ginger 
1 large clove garlic, minced 
2 quarts chicken stock 
3 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 1/2 tablespoons cider vinegar 
2 tsp chili sesame oil (or 1 tsp sesame oil + 1 tsp chili oil) 
Salt and pepper 
2 ounces dried vermicelli 
2 or 3 scallion stalks, chopped 
Heat 1 ounce olive oil a wok or sauté pan over medium-high heat. Sauté the chicken breast skin-side down until golden brown, about 5 to 6 minutes. Turn the chicken breast over and sauté the other side until fully cooked, another 5 to 6 minutes. You can also put a quarter cup of water in the pan to steam the meat through. Remove the chicken from the skillet and set aside to let cool. 
Meanwhile, heat 1 ounce olive oil in a medium-sized pot over high heat.  Cook the shiitake mushrooms, shallots, and ginger, stirring occasionally, for 3 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for another minute. Pour in the chicken stock and bring to boil. Reduce to simmer and add soy sauce, vinegar, and chili sesame oil. Season with salt and pepper to taste (for extra authenticity points, use white pepper.) 
Meanwhile, slice the chiclen breast (1/2 inch or so thick) after it has cooled. 
Add vermicelli and cook for 5 to 6 minutes. Stir in chicken at the last minute to reheat. Ladle into soup bowls, garnish with scallions, and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Chicken, Chinese, Noodles, Recipes, Soup, Spicy 
Share 
 7 Likes 
← Chinese New Year Foods - Top 10 PicksFood Journeys of a Lifetime, National Geographic → 



START RECIPE

Hunan Eggplant with Bacon and Shiitakes 
August 4, 2010 
hunan-eggplant.jpg 
August is the beginning of eggplant season in the Northeast, so this is as good a time as any to indulge in my favorite plump vegetable. 

When I was living in Beijing and teaching Sichuan cooking classes, one of the recipes that became a regular part of the curriculum was Fish-Fragrant Eggplant. Most students were indifferent to eggplant until they tried making this particular dish. The eggplant is cut into thick slices, stir-fried, then braised in a mouth-tingling Sichuan pepper and chili bean sauce. It's one of the few hearty main dishes in Chinese cuisine that's completely vegetarian (well, if you subtitute chicken stock with vegetable stock.) 

This eggplant dish I'm posting today doesn't even pretend to be vegetarian. It's more Hunan-style, and uses chopped bacon to flavor the sauce. (You can also use ground pork.) In Hunan, it's more common to see eggplant deep-fried. However, I find that with deep-frying, the eggplant gets way too soggy a day later. This is an important consideration if you're cooking for one and end up with a ton of leftovers. Plus, there is no point in wasting a couple liters of oil. 

So I end up shallow-frying my eggplant. You will need about 1/3 cup of oil for 1 1/2 pounds of eggplant, since the vegetable is pretty spongey. But no more than 1/3 cup. That amount of oil will get the outsides nice and golden brown. With the addition of the bacon and mushroom sauce, this dish is great for anyone whose taste buds scream for salt, spice, and this. And it'll reheat beautifully. 

_______________________________________ 

Hunan Eggplant with Bacon and Shiitakes 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

3 dried shiitake mushrooms 
1 1/2 pounds eggplant 
1/3 cup peanut or vegetable oil 
3 ounces uncooked bacon, chopped 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
1 tablespoon chili bean sauce 
1/4 cup chicken stock 
2 tablespoons dark soy sauce 
1/2 teaspoon sesame oil 
Salt to taste 
3 scallion stalks, thinly sliced 
Instructions 

Soak the shiitake mushrooms in hot water for 20 minutes, until they soften. Drain the mushrooms and squeeze them dry. Discard the stems and finely chop the mushroom caps. 
Quarter the eggplants length-wise, then cut 1/2-inch thick slices from each quarter. 
Heat the 1/3 cup oil in a wok over high heat until just beginning to smoke. Add the eggplants and stir-fry for 4 to 5 minutes, stirring often, until the outsides turn golden brown. Remove the eggplant with a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on paper towels. 
Reduce the heat to medium and add the bacon. Cook the bacon for 2 to 3 minutes. Add the garlic and shittakes and stir-fry for another minute. Add the chili bean sauce and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Return the eggplant to the wok. Pour in the chicken stock, soy sauce and sesame oil. Allow everything to simmer for a few minutes while the flavors penetrate the eggplants. Add salt if needed. 
Add the chopped scallions to the eggplant mix and cook for another minute. Remove from the wok and serve. 
In Recipes 
Share 
 2 Likes 
← Chinese-Jamaican Food in Brooklyn: De Bamboo ExpressVintage Chinese Restaurant Ad, Texas → 



START RECIPE

Hunan-Style Braised Fried Tofu 
March 9, 2008 
 When it comes to tofu, the choices that usually come to mind are soft, firm, or extra firm blocks. Of course, there are many other kinds of tofu, a product of curdled soy milk, just waiting to be eaten. Fermented tofu, fried tofu, frozen tofu, smoked tofu, tofu skin, and flavored tofu all have their own uses, which will be covered here in another time. Fried tofu, though, is what I've been experimenting with. My local markets carry a variety that includes triangles, tofu ends, and tofu puffs (more cubed shaped.) 

This quick and fiery Hunan-style dish is made by braising pre-fried tofu puffs (豆泡 dòupào) in stock. Slicing the puffs in half or thirds, depending on the size, allow more sauce to be absorbed. I used 3 dried chillis in my version, but you can always tone down the spiciness. 


Hunan-Style Braised Fried Tofu Adapted from Saveur 

Serves 4 

1 tablespoon peanut oil 3 cloves garlic, minced 1 1 piece ginger, peeled and minced 2 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon dark soy sauce 1⁄2 lb. deep-fried tofu puffs, cut into 1⁄2-inch thick slices 2 to 3 dried chillis, stemmed and halved length-wise 7 Chinese chives scallions, green parts only, cut into 2-inch pieces 1 tsp. cornstarch mixed with 2 tsp. cold water 
Heat oil in a wok over medium-high heat. Stir-fry garlic and ginger in the wok until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add chicken stock and bring to a boil, then add soy sauce, tofu, and chillis. Reduce heat to medium, and simmer until sauce is slightly thickened, about 6 to 7 minutes. Add chives, toss to mix, and cook another 30 seconds. Add cornstarch mixture and stir gently until sauce has thickened, about 1 minute. Transfer to a plate or large shallow bowl and serve immediately. 

In Recipes Tags Chinese Vegetarian, Hunan, Recipes, Spicy, Tofu 
Share 
 0 Likes 
← Chrysanthemum TeaMalatang → 



START RECIPE

Kung Pao Bacon 
June 24, 2013 
kung-pao-bacon-4 
Do you have a go-to sauce to use whenever you're in the mood for a quick stir-fry? 

I was recently ed that question on a phone interview and, after a few seconds of thinking, realized that I often make my kung pao chicken sauce or some variation of it for meals, without thinking twice about it. 

I mean, it's just so easy and tasty. The mixture of sweet, savory, tangy, and smoky sauce with a tinge of spiciness takes just 1 minute to mix together. And it's versatile. In addition to chicken, I've used it for shrimp, tofu, and brussels sprouts. My friend Dave even made Kung Pao Fiddleheads when fiddlehead ferns were in season last month. 

A few weeks ago I went to Mission Chinese for lunch and ordered a plate of their Kung Pao Pastrami, a great mix of thickly cut pastrami, potato, celery, and dried chilis. Inspired to try out different cuts of meat, I made Kung Pao Bacon a few days later. Here, I relax a bit on my idea that kung pao anything should have a limited amount of vegetables in order for the protein, chilis, and peanuts to shine through. Lightly cooked red bell peppers actually works really well here in contrast to the crisp bacon. And the advantage of using bacon is that you don't need any oil to start off the cooking process, though you should remember to drain out most of it before cooking the rest of the ingredients. 

What other proteins have you tried, or would like to try, with kung pao sauce? 

kung-pao-bacon-1 
___________________________ 

Kung Pao Bacon 

Serves 4 

Ingredients 

12 ounces bacon, cut into large bite-sized pieces 
8 to 10 dried red chilis 
5 scallions 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon minced or grated ginger 
1 red bell pepper, diced 
¼ cup unsalted dry-roasted peanuts 
Sauce 

1 tablespoon Chinese black vinegar, or substitute good-quality balsamic vinegar 
1 teaspoon soy sauce 
1 teaspoon hoisin sauce 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
2 teaspoons sugar 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper 
Instructions 

Prepare the sauce: In another bowl, combine the vinegar, soy sauce, hoisin sauce, sesame oil, sugar, cornstarch, and Sichuan pepper. Stir until the sugar and cornstarch is dissolved and set aside. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add the bacon and cook until crisp on the outside and cooked through, about 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer to a plate lined with paper towels. 
Drain all but 1 tablespoon of bacon grease from the pan. Add the chilis and stir-fry for about 30 seconds, until the chilis have just begun to blacken and the oil is slightly fragrant. 
Add the scallion whites, garlic, and ginger, and stir-fry for 30 seconds. Add the red bell pepper and stir-fry for another 30 seconds. Return the bacon to the pan. Pour in the sauce and mix to coat the other ingredients. Stir in the peanuts. Transfer to a serving plate, sprinkle the scallion greens on top, and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Bacon, Chinese, Recipes, Sichuan 
Share 
 2 Likes 
← Spicy Orange ChickenReminder: Transfer your RSS feeds by July 1st! → 



START RECIPE

Kung Pao Brussels Sprouts 
March 7, 2013 
kung-pao-brussels-sprouts-3 
I love it when recipe ideas spring out of casual conversation. Last weekend, when meeting up with my friends Melissa and Jon, they mentioned they had been making the Kung Pao Chicken from my cookbook on a regular basis. And even using the sauce for stir-frying other things, like brussels sprouts. 

Kung Pao Brussels Sprouts? What a genius idea. Why hadn't I thought of that before? Every time I have a craving for brussels sprouts, which is often, my MO is to just roast them in the oven with a bit of olive oil, salt, and pepper. I never thought to give them the Sichuan treatment.  But it seemed perfect: the crispiness of roasted brussels sprouts would go so well with the tangy-savory sauce, the chilis, and crunchy peanuts. 

I started off by roasting the brussels sprouts in the oven for about 20 minutes. Then I stir-fried the dried red chilis, scallions, ginger, and garlic like I would for kung pao chicken. The sauce had to be adjusted just a bit, to account for not needing to marinate the main ingredient. The brussels sprouts got tossed into the pan at the very end, for only about 1 minute or less, just long enough to coat them with sauce and the peanuts. The result is perfectly cooked brussels sprouts with beautifully golden and crispy outsides, accented with an addictive kung pao sauce. 

They're great as a vegetable side if you're serving a multi-course meal. Or you could do what I did, which was just sitting down and eating an entire bowl for lunch. (You can do it too. Nobody's ing.) 

kung-pao-brussels-sprouts-1 
_____________________________ 
 
Kung Pao Brussels Sprouts 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound brussels sprouts, trimmed and sliced in half length-wise 
1/4 cup olive oil 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/8 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil 
8 to 10 dried red chilis 
1 scallion, chopped 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon minced or grated ginger 
¼ cup unsalted dry-roasted peanuts 
Sauce: 

1 tablespoon Chinese black vinegar, or substitute good-quality balsamic vinegar 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 teaspoon hoisin sauce 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
2 teaspoons sugar 
1 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper 
Instructions 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Spread the brussels sprouts on a large baking sheet and toss with the olive oil, salt, and pepper. Once the oven is hot enough, roast for 20 minutes, until the outside leaves are golden and crispy and the insides are cooked through. 
Prepare the sauce: In small bowl, combine the vinegar, soy sauce, hoisin sauce, sesame oil, sugar, and Sichuan pepper. Stir until the sugar is dissolved and set aside. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add the oil and swirl to coat the base. Add the chilis and stir-fry for about 30 seconds, until the chilis have just begun to blacken and the oil is slightly fragrant. Add the scallions, garlic, and ginger and cook for another 30 seconds. 
Return the brussels sprouts to the pan, add the peanuts, and pour in the sauce. Stir just until the brussels sprouts are well coated, about 30 to 60 seconds. Quickly transfer to a large bowl or plate and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Brussels Sprouts, Chinese, Recipes, Vegetarian 
Share 
 12 Likes 
← Chinese Scallion Pancakes + VideoTomato Egg Drop Soup + New Video → 



START RECIPE

Kung Pao Chicken 
May 7, 2012 
kung-pao-chicken.jpg 
The last time I wrote about kung pao chicken was almost four years ago, in July  of 2008. I was living in Beijing at the time, and kung pao chicken had been designated the official dish of the 2008 Summer Olympics. It was easy to prepare, more filling than a Clif Bar, and sports venues could even sell it in the stands.  

I've made the dish countless times since then, teaching it in classes, and refining it for my upcoming cookbook. Because I have an exciting announcement coming in the next couple of days related to this dish, I'm posting a revised recipe for you to try at home, with a tastier sauce and more streamlined directions. And stay tuned in the next couple of days for more news! (Update: see the Kung Pao Recipe Chicken Kit collaboration with our friends at GrubKit!) 

kungpao-chicken-ingredients.jpg 
Kung pao chicken, known by most fans as a Sichuan dish, has a much-debated origin within China. One popular theory is that Ding Baozhen, a Qing Dynasty governor in Sichuan province, tried it at a Sichuan restaurant and liked it so much that the dish was named after his official title, Gong Bao (which became “Kung Pao” in English). Others, however, dispute its origin in Sichuan, claiming the governor brought it from his childhood home in Guizhou province. Whichever the case, the important thing is that this highly addictive stir-fried chicken continues to be one of the most popular Chinese dishes in China as well as America. 

The succulent, complex sauce of salty, sweet, sour, and spicy flavors is hard to pass up. One faux-pas restaurants in the U.S. sometimes make is adding tons of vegetatables like bell peppers and broccoli. The main protein, blistered chilis, and peanuts should be stars. Chunks of vegetables get in the way in terms of both flavor and appearance. 

sichuan-peppercorn.jpg 
For years, Americanized versions of kung pao chicken also left out the Sichuan peppercorns because of an import ban, which is a shame since the numbing spiciness (mala in Chinese) is integral to the dish. Now, fortunately, Sichuan peppercorn is once again easily found in Chinatown shops and even gourmet chains like Whole Foods. 

So pick up some chicken on your way home from work and try this out. This tastes better than any takeout kung pao chicken you may have tried. 

____________________________ 

Kung Pao Chicken 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound skinless, boneless chicken breast or thighs, cut into 1-inch cubes 
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil 
8 to 10 dried red chilis 
5 scallions, white and green parts separated and thinly sliced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon minced or grated ginger 
¼ cup unsalted dry-roasted peanuts 
Marinade: 

1 tablespoon soy sauce 
2 teaspoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1 ½ teaspoons cornstarch 
Sauce: 

1 tablespoon Chinese black vinegar, or substitute good-quality balsamic vinegar 
1 teaspoon soy sauce 
1 teaspoon hoisin sauce 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
2 teaspoons sugar 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper 
Instructions 

Marinate the chicken: In a medium bowl, stir together the soy sauce, rice wine, and cornstarch until the cornstarch is dissolved. Add the chicken and toss to coat. Let stand for 10 minutes. 
Prepare the sauce: In another bowl, combine the vinegar, soy sauce, hoisin sauce, sesame oil, sugar, cornstarch, and Sichuan pepper. Stir until the sugar and cornstarch is dissolved and set aside. 
You may need to turn on your stove’s exhaust fan, because stir-frying dried chilis on high heat can get a little smoky. Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add the peanut oil and swirl to coat the base. Add the chilis and stir-fry for about 30 seconds, until the chilis have just begun to blacken and the oil is slightly fragrant. Add the chicken and stir-fry until no longer pink, about 2 to 3 minutes. 
Add the scallion whites, garlic, and ginger, and stir-fry for 30 seconds. Pour in the sauce and mix to coat the other ingredients. Stir in the peanuts and cook for another 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer to a serving plate, sprinkle the scallion greens on top, and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Chicken, Chinese, Recipes, Sichuan, Spicy, Favorites 
Share 
 30 Likes 
← Announcing the Kung Pao Chicken Recipe Kit!Coconut Chicken Adobo → 



START RECIPE

Kung Pao Shrimp 
August 15, 2012 
Kung Pao Shrimp 
When I teach cooking classes, one of the questions students  most frequently is what is my favorite dish to cook again and again. Talk about hard questions! I'm constantly testing so many new recipes for this blog and other projects that  I don't get to go back to old favorites as often as I should. 

But of course, there are recipes I frequently crave and try to work in on nights when I'm not testing out new recipes. One is buttermilk roast chicken, a delicious standby for when friends come by for dinner. Another is chicken adobo and its coconut variation, which I frequently daydream about and could make in my sleep. And yet another is anything kung pao. 

Kung pao chicken is such a standby in my kitchen because of both its mouthwatering sauce and its ease of preparation. But from time to time, I also make kung pao shrimp as a variation. The prep time is roughly the same, or even faster if you buy your shrimp already cleaned and deveined. 

For kung pao shrimp, I adjust the sauce quantities to account for the shrimp not being marinated beforehand like chicken, but the end result is still a delicious mix of savory, spicy, and tangy with a hint of sweetness and some crunch from the peanuts. The key is drying the shrimp all around with paper towels, so they get a nice even sear in the wok. The actual cooking is super-easy and takes just 5 minutes or less. 

___________________________ 

Kung Pao Shrimp 

Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound large shrimp 
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil 
8 to 10 dried red chilis 
3 scallions, white and green parts separated and thinly sliced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon minced or grated ginger 
¼ cup unsalted dry-roasted peanuts 
Sauce: 

1 tablespoon Chinese black vinegar, or substitute good-quality balsamic vinegar 
2 teaspoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 teaspoons soy sauce 
1 teaspoon hoisin sauce 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
2 teaspoons sugar 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper 
Instructions 

Peel and devein the shrimp. Blot the shrimp all around with paper towels to get rid of excess moisture. 
Prepare the sauce: In a small bowl, combine the vinegar, rice wine, soy sauce, hoisin sauce, sesame oil, sugar, cornstarch, and Sichuan pepper. Stir until the sugar and cornstarch is dissolved and set aside. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add the peanut oil and swirl to coat the base. Add the chilis and stir-fry for about 30 seconds, until the chilis have just begun to blacken and the oil is slightly fragrant. Add the shrimp and stir-fry until mostly pink on the outside but not yet cooked through, about 1 to 2 minutes. 
Add the scallion whites, garlic, and ginger, and stir-fry for 30 seconds. Pour in the sauce and mix to coat the other ingredients. Stir in the peanuts and cook for another 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer to a serving plate, sprinkle the scallion greens on top, and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Chinese, Recipes, Seafood, Shrimp, Spicy 
Share 
 12 Likes 
← Pork Belly and Kimchi Stir-fryChicken Korma → 



START RECIPE

Kung Pao Tofu 
May 9, 2008 
kungpao-tofu-5_0.jpg 
This afternoon, less than 24 hours before hopping on a train to Hong Kong, I was faced with a dilemma. Do I boil some instant ramen noodles and start packing early, to ensure I remember everything and not wait until the last minute? Or do I make myself a good, hearty lunch, while updating my iPod with all the new music and podcasts necessary for a long train ride? 

A perpetual procrastinator, I chose the latter. 

The plan was to make Kung Pao Chicken, because that was what I was craving. Then I looked in the fridge and saw a pack of lonely-looking tofu, which would certainly go uneaten before the trip. 

Don't let me go to waste, it seemed to be saying. Buy chicken another day, when you're not about to go for a 2-week trip. 

Fine, I sighed. 

I made Kung Pao Tofu instead. It wasn't chicken, but it was less wasteful and kept in line with my eat-less-meat resolution. (Of course, I can only hold up for so long, since the wonton soups and Cantonese roast ducks in HK are too irresistable.) 

This is, of course, a vegetarian version of the more traditional Kung Pao Chicken. (You can also substitute shrimp or prawns for the protein.) The origin of this dish is much debated. One popular theory is that Ding Baozhen, a Qing Dynasty emperor, enjoyed eating it so much that the dish was named after his officlal title, Gong Bao. Most people believe it to be of Sichuan or Hunan origin, though this NYTimes article says otherwise. What is important, though, is the sensational salty, sweet, sour, and spicy flavors and mingling on the palate. 

kungpao-tofu-1.jpg 
Americanized versions often neglect the Sichuan peppercorns, which is a shame since the mala spiciness is integral to the dish. Another faux-pas cooks there often make is adding tons of vegetatables like bell peppers and broccoli. The main protein, blistered chilis, and peanuts should be stars: chunks of vegetables get in the way in terms of both flavor and appearance. 

That said, this dish is still pretty straightforward and easy. Despite the length of the ingredient list, all of them are Chinese kitchen staples. And feel free to fancy up up the dish with cashews instead of peanuts: this subsitution is a favorite of banquet-style restaurants designed to impress. 

And now, with the Kung Pao Tofu eaten and dishes washed, I guess I can no longer procratinate on packing. 

____________________________________________________ 

Try some other spicy Sichuan dishes: 

Mapo Tofu 

Dan Dan Mian 

Sichuan Cucumber Salad 

____________________________________________________ 

Kung Pao Tofu 

Serves 2 as a main entree, or 4 as part of a multi-course meal 

16 ounces dou gan or extra firm tofu 
2 to 3 gloves garlic, minced 
5 slices of ginger 
5 to 6 scallions, roughly chopped, plus some thinly sliced scallions for optional garnish 
2 tablespoons peanut oil 
At least 10 dried red chilis 
1 tablespoon whole Sichuan peppercorns 
One handful of dry roasted peanuts 
Marinade: 

1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 teaspoons light soy sauce 
1 teaspoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1 1/2 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 tablespoon water 
Sauce: 

3 teaspoons sugar 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 teaspoon dark soy sauce 
1 teaspoon light Soy sauce 
2 teaspoons Chinese black vinega or good-quality balsamic vinegar 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
1 tablespoon chicken stock or water 
Cube the tofu and mix in the marinade ingredients. Let stand while you prepare the other ingredients. 
If you haven't done so already, mince the garlic and peel and slice the ginger. Roughly chop the white parts of scallions, and thinly slice the green parts for garnish (optional.) Either leave the dried chilis whole, or slice them in half and take out as many seeds as possible (wear gloves!) 
In another bowl, mix together the ingredients for the sauce and set aside. (Note: Different brands of soy sauces vary in terms of saltiness, so taste your sauce. If it's too salty, add some sugar and water to dilute.) 
Heat a wok with oil over high heat. Before the wok begins to smoke, add the chilis and Sichuan peppercorn. Stir-fry briefly until the chilis are slightly blistered and oil is slightly fragrant. Add tofu and stir-fry 2 to 3 minutes. Add garlic, ginger, and scallions, and stir-fry until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Pour in sauce and mix to coat the other ingredients. When the sauce is thickened and shiny, stir in peanuts. 
Transfer to plates, garnish with thinly sliced scallions, and serve. 
Adapted from Fuchsia Dunlop's Kung Pao Chicken from Land of Plenty  

In Recipes Tags Chinese Vegetarian, Recipes, Sichuan Food, Spicy, Tofu 
Share 
 2 Likes 
← Disappearing Foods of AmericaLucky Nectarines → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Lemon Chicken 
July 23, 2010 
chinese-lemon-chicken 
Most sane people keep a drawer full of delivery menus for the sole purpose of...ordering delivery. I too have a menu drawer, but can count on two hands the number of times I have actually ordered delivery in the past few years. 

Call me a bad New Yorker.  I'm pretty good with picking up takeout while out somewhere, but dialing from home is another story. Being so dangerously close to the kitchen, I usually wind up studying the menu for half an hour, choosing an entree, then deciding, screw this, I can make the same dish, except way better. 

This hubris usually leads me to spend another couple of hours ransacking my cabinets, schlepping to the grocery store, figuring out a strategy, then executing it. Even if it is already past 9pm and I'm starving. Sure, it would have been easier and about 1 hour and 50 minutes faster to just call the damn Golden Panda Dynasty, but definitely not as satisfying. Or so I tell myself. 

I wonder if delivery menu one-upmanship can be classified as a psychological disorder. 

On the bright side, I can now whip up many MSG-free versions of takeout favorites, like General Tso's chicken, sweet and sour pork, and orange sesame chicken. This week was lemon chicken's turn. Sure, lemon chicken also exists as a dish in mainland China, but usually steamed, almost like Hainan chicken, with slices of lemon on top. Which is good in its own respect, but sometimes you just want a crunchy exterior. 

So try this lemon chicken recipe and see how it compares.  The sauce incorporates a little sautéed garlic and ginger, chicken broth, some lemon juice and zest, and enough sugar to balance out the tartness. 

Let me know what you think! 

_________________________________ 

Chinese Lemon Chicken 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts or thighs, cut into 1-inch cubes 
1 teaspoon white sesame seeds 
1 1/2 cups cornstarch 
3 cups peanut or vegetable oil, plus 1 tablespoon for stir-frying 
Lemon slices (optional) 
Marinade 

1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
2 large egg whites 
Sauce 

2 garlic cloves, minced 
1/2 tablespoon minced ginger 
1/4 cup chicken stock 
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
2 teaspoons grated lemon zest 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
2 tablespoons sugar 
1 teaspoon cornstarch, dissolved in 1 tablespoon water 
Instructions 

Marinate the chicken: In a medium bowl, combine the soy sauce, sesame oil, and egg whites. Add the chicken and stir gently to coat. Let stand at room temperature for 10 minutes. 
In a small dry pan, toast the sesame seeds for about 1 minute, or until they become lightly brown and aromatic. Transfer to a dish and set aside. 
Spread the 1 1/2 cups of cornstarch in a large bowl or deep plate. Toss the chicken cubes in the cornstarch and shake off any excess before frying. 
Heat the peanut oil in a wok or heavy-bottomed pot until it registers 350 degrees F on an instant-read oil thermometer. Working in 2 or 3 batches, add the chicken cubes and fry until lightly golden on the outside and cooked through, about 3 minutes. Remove the chicken with a slotted spoon and drain on a plate lined with paper towels. (Optional: To get the chicken extra-crispy, allow the chicken to drain and cool for about 5 minutes, then return the chicken to the wok to fry for another 30 seconds, until golden brown.) 
Transfer the oil to a heat-proof container. (It will take about 1 hour to fully cool, after which you can transfer it to a container with a tight lid to dispose of it.) If you used a wok to deep-fry, you can reuse it to make the sauce next by just wiping down the insides with a paper towel. If you used a heavy-bottomed pot for deep-frying, switch to a clean wok or large skillet. 
Prepare the sauce: Heat the wok or skillet over medium-high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon peanut oil and swirl to coat the bottom. Add the garlic and ginger and cook briefly until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the chicken stock, lemon juice, lemon zest, soy sauce, and sugar. Stir until the sugar is dissolved and simmer until the liquid is reduced by half. Stir in the cornstarch mixture to thicken the sauce. 
Remove from the heat and toss the fried chicken in the sauce. Transfer to a serving dish and garnish with the toasted sesame seeds and lemon slices (if using). 
First posted July 23, 2010. Updated June 5, 2013. 

In Recipes Tags American Chinese, Chicken, Chinese, Recipes 
Share 
 25 Likes 
← Vintage Chinese Restaurant Ad, Texunjip in Koreatown → 



START RECIPE

Spicy Black Bean Chicken 
October 16, 2008 
black-bean-chicken 
Fermented black beans, while not as ubiquitous in Chinese cooking as soy sauce, are a worthy pantry staple for any Chinese cooking aficionado. These little soybeans, packed and fermented in salt, give a pungent dimension to your stir-fry sauces. You may have encountered them before in Cantonese black bean spare ribs (usually served at dim sum) or Sichuan dishes like mapo tofu or twice-cooked pork. Just a tiny amount can add a big whopping amount of umami to your everyday stir-fry. 

Yesterday I stir-fried some chicken with the fermented black beans and a little chili oil, a landlubber's take on the Cantonese shrimp in black bean sauce I've eaten many times over.  You can find these little beans at any Chinese grocery store, packed in plastic. Before using, rinse them in water or rice wine to get rid of excess grit. I store my black beans in the fridge in a little plastic container, but I know tons of cooks who keep them in cabinets: with tons of salt and no moisture, bacterial growth is minimal. 

Do you cooked with fermented black beans, and if so, what's your favorite dish to make with them? 

____________________________ 

Spicy Black Bean Chicken 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts, sliced into 1-inch cubes 
2 tablespoons fermented black beans 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
1 yellow onion, chopped 
1 garlic clove, minced 
1 teaspoon julienned fresh ginger 
Marinade: 

1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 
Sauce: 

2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 
1/4 teaspoon chili oil 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 
1/2 teaspoon paprika 
Instructions 

Marinate the chicken: In a small bowl, stir together the soy sauce, rice wine, and cornstarch until the cornstarch is dissolved. Add the chicken and gently stir to coat. Let stand at room temperature for 10 minutes. 
Rinse the black beans to remove any grit. In a small bowl, mash the black beans with the back of a spoon and set aside. 
Prepare the sauce: In another small bowl, combine the rice wine, soy sauce, chili oil, cumin, and paprika. Set aside. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add the peanut oil and swirl to coat the bottom. Add the chicken and stir-fry until it is no longer pink on the outside but not yet cooked through, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the onions, garlic, ginger, and fermented black beans and stir-fry for another minute. 
Add the sauce and scrape the bottom of the wok with a spatula to loosen up any juicy brown bits. Stir to coat the chicken. Simmer until the sauce is slightly thickened, about 1 minute. Transfer to a plate and serve. 
In Recipes Tags Chicken, Chinese, Recipes 
Share 
 7 Likes 
← Pumpkin HummusTwice-Cooked Pork → 



START RECIPE

Spicy Orange Chicken 
June 30, 2013 
spicy-orange-chicken-1 
Many people associate orange chicken with weeknight takeout. Strangely, I associate it with weekend brunch. 

This might be a holdover from my 20s. After late nights out at friends' birthday parties and other such events, I would sometimes wake up very groggy and craving orange chicken from the corner takeout place. Sure, it was fried, sugary, and a bit greasy, but it was also perfect for eating in front of the TV with a large *strong* iced coffee. To some people this might sound very, um, odd. To me this combo was heaven on a Sunday morning after a few extra glasses of wine the night before. 

These days, my preference for orange chicken veers towards the healthier homemade variety. The orange chicken that appears in my cookbook is a crunchy, shallow-fried dish that I tested again and again to get the coating crispy without being too greasy. And yesterday, when it was in the mid-80s and stuffy in my apartment, I tried a stir-fried spicy orange chicken recipe from Grace Young's Stir-Frying to the Sky's Edge. 

Grace's spicy orange chicken stir-fry is perfect for the summer. First, it's quick, so you don't have to spend much time in front of the stove. Second, you can use those incredibly flavorful summer tomatoes that are in the markets right now. The sauce isn't heavy at all. Even the spiciness is on the lighter side, with Sichuan pepper adding a floral, citrusy note. (You can always leave it out or substitute 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper or crushed red pepper flakes.) 

For a very summery meal, you can make lemongrass iced tea or black cherry iced tea to go with the chicken. But maybe skip the iced coffee, unless you really need it. 

spicy-orange-chicken-3 
______________________________ 
 
Spicy Orange Chicken 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound skinless, boneless chicken breast, cut into 1/4-inch-thick bite-sized slices 
2 tablespoons minced ginger 
1 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 teaspoons soy sauce 
1 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch 
3/4 teaspoon sugar 
1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 
1/4 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper 
2 teaspoons rice vinegar 
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil 
2 scallions, white and green parts separated and thinly sliced 
Peel of 1 orange, cut into skinny strips 
1 teaspoon chili bean sauce 
1 medium ripe tomato, cut into thin wedges 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
Instructions 

Marinate the chicken: In a large bowl, combine the chicken with 1 tablespoon of the ginger, 1 tablespoon of the rice wine, soy sauce, 1 teaspoon of the cornstarch, sugar, white pepper, and ground Sichuan pepper. Stir to combine and let sit for 5 to 10 minutes. 
In a small bowl, combine the rice vinegar, the remaining 1 tablespoon rice wine, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon cornstarch. 
Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat. Add the oil and swirl to coat the bottom. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon ginger and stir-fry for 10 seconds, just until the ginger is fragrant. 
Push the ginger to the sides of the wok. Carefully add the chicken, spread it evenly in one layer in the wok, and allow it to sear undisturbed for 1 minute. Add the orange strips, scallion whites, and chili bean sauce. Stir-fry for 1 minute, until the chicken is lightly brown but not yet cooked through. 
Add the tomatoes and stir-fry for about 30 seconds. Re-stir the rice vinegar mixture and add it to the wok. Add the salt. Stir-fry for another 1 minute, or until the chicken is cooked through. Transfer to a plate and serve. 
Adapted from Stir-Frying to the Sky's Edge by Grace Young. 

In Recipes Tags Chicken, Chinese, Recipes 
Share 
 4 Likes 
← Happy July 4th!Kung Pao Bacon → 



START RECIPE

Spicy Hunan Beef with Cumin 
February 27, 2012 
hunan-beef-cumin-1 
One of the best parts about revisiting recipes from previous years is seeing how little changes can make a big difference. Take, for example, this Spicy Hunan Beef with Cumin dish. The version from June 2010 involved fresh red chilis with crushed red pepper flakes. Over the weekend, I ed the recipe with dried red chilis with chili oil and a bit of chili sauce. The result was an even better dish, with a hint of smokiness from the dried red chilis and chili oil that the first version didn't have. It'll be my go-to version from now on. 

When I moved into my new apartment a few months ago, the first thing I did was take inventory of the cupboards. (The previous tenants had left a decent supply of spices, oils, and condiments.) The second thing I did, even though it was almost 10pm by the time I was done unpacking, was march over the Trader Joe's and buy ground cumin. I had not planned on cooking that night. It just made me sleep better, knowing my kitchen was no longer egregiously understocked. 

Other than sea salt, cumin is the spice that I cannot with without. If I were only allowed two spices on a deserted island (with an otherwise fully-stocked kitchen), and had to choose between cumin and a pepper grinder, the former might win out. Just a whiff of toasted cumin seeds brings back a flood of memories of the best foods I have ever eaten: melty lamb shoulder from a Yemeni restaurant in Brooklyn, late night beef kebabs from a street vendor in Beijing, or pilau from an Afghani restaurant near Boston. 

On this blog already I have already made a good number of salads and other vegetarian dishes with cumin, but here's one for red meat eaters. Cumin is normally used in western Chinese cooking, such as that from Xi'an or the Xinjiang province, but periodically shows up in Hunan and Sichuan cooking as well. 

Hunan's version of stir-fried beef with cumin combines cumin with the fresh and dried chilis the province is known for. My version is pretty spicy, but manageable (maybe 2 out of 3 chili pepper rating.) Buy the tenderest beef you can find and slice it very thin, for quick stir-frying. (Throwing it in the freezer for 15 to 20 minutes before preparation firms it up to make slicing easier.) And feel free to add more fresh and dried chilis if you can withstand it. 

______________________________ 

Spicy Hunan Beef with Cumin 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

1 pound flank steak, sliced thinly against the grain (about 1/4-inch thick) 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
1 tablespoons finely chopped ginger 
1 tablespoon finely chopped garlic 
6 to 8 dried red chilis 
2 scallions, green parts thinly sliced 
Marinade: 

1 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1 tablespoons soy sauce 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 
Sauce: 

1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 teaspoons chili oil 
1 teaspoon chili sauce 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1/4 teaspoon black pepper 
Instructions 

Marinate the beef: In a large bowl, combine the marinade ingredients. Add the beef and toss well to coat. Let stand for 10 to 15 minutes. 
In a small bowl, combine the ingredients for the sauce. 
Heat the peanut or vegetable oil in a wok or pan over medium-high heat. Add the beef and spread it out over the bottom of the wok. Let it sear untouched for 1 minute. Stir-fry for another 1 minute. When the beef is still a little pink in the middle, add the ginger, garlic, and dried red chilis. Stir-fry for about 30 seconds, just until fragrant). 
Add the sauce and stir to coat. Continue cooking just until the beef is no longer pink, about another 1 minute. Remove from the heat, garnish with scallions, and serve. 
In Blog, Recipes Tags Beef, Chinese, Hunan, Recipes, Spicy 
Share 
 9 Likes 
← Fried Eggs with KimchiKosher Chinese Cooking - Ingredients and Books → 



START RECIPE

Spicy Wok-Fried Chicken with Chilis (Chongqing Chicken) 
March 13, 2014 
Sichuan Wok-Fried Chicken (Chongqing Chicken) 
I had been meaning to update this recipe for a while. Whenever I teach Intro to Sichuan cooking classes, we focus on simple and easy-to-love stir-fry dishes such as Kung Pao Chicken, Mapo Tofu, and Dan Dan Noodles. But anyone who has spent enough time in good Sichuan restaurants is bound to eventually try a dish listed as Chongqing chicken, Sichuan chicken with chilis, wok-fried chicken, or a number of similar names. (Lazi jiding is the name in Mandarin.) And inevitably in every class, when I go around the room during the intro ice-breaker and have students list their favorite Sichuan dish of all time, at least one or two will mention this dish. 

When a student in a private class I recently taught requested we work on this dish, it reminded me of how long it has been since I made it at home. And so I decided to update this, making it extra crunchy with the method I developed for dishes like General Tso's Chicken and Chinese Lemon Chicken in my cookbook. 

Lazi jiding (辣子鸡丁) is like a more sophisticated version of kung pao chicken. It's smokier, spicier (a lot spicier if you chop up the chilis), and only a bit more complex in its preparation. (The way I make it is more like shallow-frying. I use about 3 cups of oil, and dredge the chicken in a cornstarch-salt-pepper mixture beforehand.) Few fried chicken entrees are enveloped by such a succulent tongue-tingling sauce. 

Give this one a try, especially if you've already tried your hand at some of the more basic Sichuan dishes and want to up the ante! 

________________________________________________________ 

Spicy Wok-Fried Chicken with Chilis (Chongqing Chicken) 
Serves 4 

1 pound chicken breast, cut into 1-inch cubes 
1 1/2 cups cornstarch 
2 teaspoons salt 
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
3 cups peanut or vegetable oil, plus 1 tablespoon for stir-frying 
8 to 10 dried red chilis 
3 garlic cloves, minced 
1 leek, white part only, thinly sliced 
1 small piece ginger, minced 
Marinade: 

2 tablespoons soy sauce 
2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
2 egg whites 
Sauce: 

2 tablespoons chili garlic sauce 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon chicken stock or water 
1 teaspoon Chinese black vinegar, or substitute a good-quality balsamic vinegar 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper 
Prepare the marinade: In a large bowl, combine the soy sauce, rice wine, and egg whites. Coat the chicken with the marinade mixture and let sit for 10 minutes.  
Mix together the ingredients for the sauce: chili garlic sauce, soy sauce, chicken stock or water, Chinese black vinegar, cornstarch, and Sichuan pepper. Set aside. 
In a large bowl or plate, mix together the cornstarch, salt, and pepper. Dredge the chicken in cornstarch mixture and shake off the excess cornstarch.  
Heat the 3 cups of peanut or vegetable oil in your wok until it registers 350°F on an instant-read oil thermometer. Working in 2 or 3 batches, add the first batch of chicken cubes and fry until golden brown on the outside and cooked through, about 4 to 5 minutes. Remove the chicken with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Repeat with the rest of the chicken. 
Drain the oil into a heatproof container and save for discarding. Wipe the wok with a paper towel to remove any brown bits, but don’t wash. 
Reheat the wok or skillet over medium-high heat. Add another 1 tablespoon of oil and swirl to coat the base and sides. Add the dried chilis to the wok and and stir-fry until just they start to blister, about 30 to 60 seconds. Add the leeks, garlic, and ginger and stir-fry for 2 minutes. Stir in sauce mixture and simmer until slightly thickened, about 1 minute. Add the fried chicken, toss to combine, and remove from heat. Serve immediately. 
In Recipes Tags China, Recipes, Sichuan Food 
Share 
 48 Likes 
← On Food & Wine!Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves + Giveaway → 



START RECIPE

Stir-fried Tomato and Eggs 
March 19, 2012 
stirfried-tomato-eggs-3 
It's another sunny March day here in New York. I've found myself wanting to spend more time working by the windows instead of working in the kitchen, which is in the interior of my apartment. So in celebration of an early spring, here is a light yet delicious Chinese comfort food dish from the archives that takes about 5 minutes on the stove. 

Within China, there are wildly divergent ways of cooking almost any dish. Take kung pao chicken, for example. The Sichuanese are wild about their version with smoky dried chilis and crunchy peanuts, while folks from Guizhou province love theirs with fresh chilis and absolutely no peanuts, and Beijingers are just fine with their mild kung pao dishes. Another example is pan-fried dumplings, whose thinned-skinned Cantonese and thicker northern varieties each have their fans. Or Cantonese wontons versus Sichuan wontons. The list goes on and on. 

Stir-fried tomato and eggs, however, is remarkably the same all over China. 

I grew up eating this dish and always associated it with weekend afternoons when my mom was too busy running errands to fix anything that took longer than 5 minutes. We also had it for weeknight dinners when my mom needed a 3rd or 4th course that didn't take longer than 5 minutes. (See a pattern?) It was our version of spaghetti with tomato sauce, the no-brainer that's also pure comfort food. 

So I had always associated this dish with Cantonese cooking, until I moved to China and found that it tasted exactly the same at little diners and fast food stalls in Beijing and Shanghai. Fluffy eggs with lightly sweetened tomatoes, maybe another vegetable thrown it to fancy it up. It was oddly reassuring. Winter in Beijing may have been bone-chilling, smoggy, and depressing, but for the 10 minutes I was scarfing down stir-fried tomato and eggs at a local restaurant I may as well have been in the sub-tropical warmth of Hong Kong. 

It's really hard to resist such a quick dish of eggs and juicy tomatoes. I actually feel a little odd publishing this as a recipe, since it's so easy you can just skim the directions and make it from memory. In addition to the title ingredients all you need is a little cooking oil, scallions, some sugar to sweeten up the tomatoes, and the usual salt and pepper. It's also a cinch to divide or multiply the portions. I find that 2 to 3 eggs and 1 tomato per person is the perfect ratio and, paired with rice, makes quite the filling meal. 

You can certainly have this for lunch or dinner, but I also have no qualms making a hearty post-yoga breakfast with the leftovers and some strong coffee. 

______________________________ 

Stir-fried Tomato and Eggs 
Serves 2 

Ingredients 

5 to 6 large eggs, beaten 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
Salt and pepper to taste 
1 scallion, white and green parts chopped and separated 
2 medium tomatoes, sliced into then wedges 
1 teaspoon sugar 
Instructions 

Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat until a drop of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add the cooking oil and swirl to coat the base. Pour in the eggs and cook undisturbed until a thin layer forms on the bottom, about 30 to 60 seconds, then scramble the eggs until they are cooked but still light and fluffy. Season to taste with salt and pepper (I find 1/4 teaspoon salt is good to start.) Scoop out the eggs onto a plate and set aside. 
In the same pan, add the scallions whites and stir-fry until just aromatic, about 20 seconds. Add the tomatoes and cook for 1 to 2 minutes, until the juices start to release and the tomatoes wedges are slightly softened but still intact. Sprinkle sugar over the tomatoes. 
Return the eggs to the pan and heat for another minute, stirring so they are well-mixed with the tomatoes. Transfer to a serving dish and add the scallion greens on top. 
In Recipes Tags Chinese, Eggs, Healthy, Recipes, Tomatoes, Vegetarian 
Share 
 2 Likes 
← Ramp and Swiss Chard DumplingsLemongrass Chicken Wings → 



START RECIPE

Chinese Shrimp with Black Bean Sauce 
February 6, 2014 
Chinese Shrimp with Black Bean Sauce | Appetite for China 
I just came back from a long weekend of Chinese New Year celebrations in Boston, where I basically gorged on good seafood the whole time.  

It's the double threat of being in a New England city known for its abundance of seafood, and being in the midst of the New Year celebrations where lobster, steamed fish, seafood nests, and shrimp and scallop stir-fries are de rigueur. So naturally, when I came back to New York earlier this week, I was still on a seafood high. And wanted to continue cooking it both for weekday meals and for sharing with you all on this here blog. 

shrimp-black-bean-sauce-3.jpg 
Fermented black beans, if you're not already familiar with them through dishes like mapo tofu or black bean chicken, are very potent and tasty, but definitely not the most attractive ingredient in the world. They come prepackaged in either a plastic bag or a plastic or glass jar. The best way to describe the smell right out of the package is super funky barnyard. That said, when cooked, they add a wonderful earthiness to Chinese dishes, so that's why we use 'em. However, if you do buy them in plastic, it's best to transfer them to a glass container with a tight lid, to store in the back of the fridge. That way, their lovely funky aroma won't bother anyone and they'll keep for a really long time.  

This shrimp stir-fry is extremely quick to put together. In fact, it is almost too quick. So you should have everything on hand with the expectation that it'll all be over in less than 5 minutes. I add some baby bok choy for color and good leafy green vitamins. If you like the earthy pungency of black beans and garlic, and still want to taste the lightness of perfectly cooked shrimp, give this one a try! 

________________________________________ 

Chinese Shrimp with Black Bean Sauce 
Serves 4 as part of a multi-course meal 

1 pound jumbo or large shrimp, peeled and deveined 
1 tablespoon peanut or vegetable oil 
2 teaspoons minced garlic 
1 teaspoon minced ginger 
2 scallions, white and green parts separated and thinly sliced 
1 tablespoon fermented black beans, rinsed, drained, and lightly mashed with the back of a spoon 
1 pound bok choy, hard ends trimmed and leaves separated 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 
Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat. Add the oil and swirl to coat the bottom. Add the shrimp and stir-fry until pink all around, about 2 minutes. Transfer to a plate and set aside. 
In the same wok or skillet, add the garlic, ginger, and scallion whites and cook just until aromatic, about 20 seconds. Add the fermented black beans and stir-fry for another 30 seconds. Add the bok coy and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the soy sauce, rice wine, and sesame oil. Stir-fry for another 1 to 2 minutes, until the bok choy is slightly wilted. 
Return the shrimp to the pan. Stir-fry for another 1 minute, until the shrimp is well-coated with the sauce. Transfer everything to a plate, garnish with scallion greens, and serve.  
In Recipes Tags shrimp, chinese, cantonese, stir-fry, seafood 
Share 
 12 Likes 
← Chinese Pork Ribs with Plum Preserves + GiveawayChinese New Year Dumplings & Wontons Class - Feb. 5t 



START RECIPE

Hunan Eggplant with Bacon and Shiitakes 
August 4, 2010 
hunan-eggplant.jpg 
August is the beginning of eggplant season in the Northeast, so this is as good a time as any to indulge in my favorite plump vegetable. 

When I was living in Beijing and teaching Sichuan cooking classes, one of the recipes that became a regular part of the curriculum was Fish-Fragrant Eggplant. Most students were indifferent to eggplant until they tried making this particular dish. The eggplant is cut into thick slices, stir-fried, then braised in a mouth-tingling Sichuan pepper and chili bean sauce. It's one of the few hearty main dishes in Chinese cuisine that's completely vegetarian (well, if you subtitute chicken stock with vegetable stock.) 

This eggplant dish I'm posting today doesn't even pretend to be vegetarian. It's more Hunan-style, and uses chopped bacon to flavor the sauce. (You can also use ground pork.) In Hunan, it's more common to see eggplant deep-fried. However, I find that with deep-frying, the eggplant gets way too soggy a day later. This is an important consideration if you're cooking for one and end up with a ton of leftovers. Plus, there is no point in wasting a couple liters of oil. 

So I end up shallow-frying my eggplant. You will need about 1/3 cup of oil for 1 1/2 pounds of eggplant, since the vegetable is pretty spongey. But no more than 1/3 cup. That amount of oil will get the outsides nice and golden brown. With the addition of the bacon and mushroom sauce, this dish is great for anyone whose taste buds scream for salt, spice, and this. And it'll reheat beautifully. 

_______________________________________ 

Hunan Eggplant with Bacon and Shiitakes 
Serves 4 

Ingredients 

3 dried shiitake mushrooms 
1 1/2 pounds eggplant 
1/3 cup peanut or vegetable oil 
3 ounces uncooked bacon, chopped 
4 garlic cloves, minced 
1 tablespoon chili bean sauce 
1/4 cup chicken stock 
2 tablespoons dark soy sauce 
1/2 teaspoon sesame oil 
Salt to taste 
3 scallion stalks, thinly sliced 
Instructions 

Soak the shiitake mushrooms in hot water for 20 minutes, until they soften. Drain the mushrooms and squeeze them dry. Discard the stems and finely chop the mushroom caps. 
Quarter the eggplants length-wise, then cut 1/2-inch thick slices from each quarter. 
Heat the 1/3 cup oil in a wok over high heat until just beginning to smoke. Add the eggplants and stir-fry for 4 to 5 minutes, stirring often, until the outsides turn golden brown. Remove the eggplant with a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on paper towels. 
Reduce the heat to medium and add the bacon. Cook the bacon for 2 to 3 minutes. Add the garlic and shittakes and stir-fry for another minute. Add the chili bean sauce and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Return the eggplant to the wok. Pour in the chicken stock, soy sauce and sesame oil. Allow everything to simmer for a few minutes while the flavors penetrate the eggplants. Add salt if needed. 
Add the chopped scallions to the eggplant mix and cook for another minute. Remove from the wok and serve. 
In Recipes 
Share 
 2 Likes 
← Chinese-Jamaican Food in Brooklyn: De Bamboo ExpressVintage Chinese Restaurant Ad, Texas → 



START RECIPE

Chicken Korma 
August 8, 2012 
Easy Chicken Korma 
My neighborhood in Brooklyn is home to tons of good restaurants, but one of the things it lacks is a good Indian restaurant. There are many nights when I come home craving a hearty plate of lamb rojan josh or saag paneer, but quickly realize that I'd have to trek back out to Manhattan in order to find good versions of those dishes. So occasionally, it just seemed easier to stock up on spices and make my own versions of Indian favorites at home. 

For nights when I have a little more time, I'd make a big batch of chicken tikka masala, which has juicy pieces of chicken marinated in yogurt and broiled until golden brown on top. When I have a little less time, I make this quick and easy version of chicken korma. 

Chicken Korma ingredients 
The ingredient list may seem a bit long, but don't worry: most of the spices (cumin, coriander, cayenne, paprika, cinnamon, cardamom, cloves, and bay leaves) you're likely to already have in your pantry.  I use boneless, skinless chicken thighs, which stay more tender and juicier without marinating than chicken breasts, and cook them with the spices, yogurt, onions, garlic, and ginger. Ground almonds also get added to the mix, with additional almond slices thrown in at the end. 

Just cook up some basmati rice on the side, and you're good to go. And if you want to make extra, go right ahead. The flavors seem to deepen overnight, resulting in even better leftovers the next day. (Weekend breakfast, anyone?) 

Easy Chicken Korma 
_________________________ 

Chicken Korma 

Serves 4  

1/2 cup almond slices or slivers 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 teaspoon ground coriander 
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1 teaspoon paprika 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1 medium onion, finely diced 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
2 teaspoons minced or grated ginger 
1 1/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs or breasts, cut into 1-inch cubes 
1 1/2 cups plain yogurt 
1 dried bay leaf 
2 teaspoons light brown sugar 
1/2 teaspoon salt, plus more if needed 
1/8 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1 tablespoon chopped cilantro (if needed) 
Grind 1/2 of the almonds in a spice grinder or with a mortar and pestle, reserving the other half until Step 4. 
In a small bowl, combine the ground almonds, cumin, coriander, cardamom, cayenne pepper, paprika, cinnamon, and cloves.  
Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet (14 is ideal) or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add the onion and sauté until translucent and golden, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and ginger and cook for another minute. Add the chicken and sauté, stirring occasionally, until it's mostly white, about 2 minutes. Add the almond-spice mix and stir to coat the chicken and onions.  
Add the yogurt, bay leaf, and brown sugar and allow the chicken to simmer for another 3 to 4 minutes, until the chicken is fully cooked and the sauce has thickened. Add the salt and pepper and adjust with more salt if needed. Transfer to a serving dish, garnish with the remaining almond slices and chopped cilantro, and serve.  
In Recipes Tags Chicken, Indian, Recipes 
Share 
 23 Likes 
← Kung Pao ShrimpThai Eggplant Curry → 



START RECIPE

CHEESY PESTO PIZZA BITES 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
4 ounces fresh basil leaves 
1/4 cup pine nuts 
2 medium cloves garlic 
1/4 cup olive oil 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 French baguette 
1 cup tomato sauce 
1 cup vegan shredded mozzarella cheese 

What you do:  
1) In a food processor, grind basil, pine nuts and garlic in a food processor until finely chopped. Add olive oil and salt and process 10 to 15 seconds, or until oil is incorporated. 

2) Preheat oven to broil and prepare a baking sheet by either lightly greasing with oil or lining with aluminum foil. 

3) Slice baguette into 1” slices. Place in a single layer on prepared baking sheet and spread approximately 1 teaspoon pesto on each slice. Next, top each with approximately 1 to 2 teaspoons tomato sauce, then sprinkle with vegan cheese. Broil for 5 to 10 minutes or until vegan cheese has melted. Remove from oven and allow to cool slightly before consuming. 

Preparation Time:  
10 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
10 minutes 
Servings:  
4 
Recipe Category:  
Appetizers 
Miscellaneous Appetizers 
Miscellaneous Pizza 


START RECIPE
CRUNCHY DILL AND “SOUR CREAM” POTATO BITES 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
1 large russet potato 
¼ cup non-dairy sour cream 
¾ teaspoon garlic salt 
½ teaspoon + ¼ teaspoon dried dill weed, divided 
½ teaspoon onion powder 
½ cup panko 

What you do:  
Preheat oven to 325º F. Grease baking sheet and set aside. 

Combine sour cream, garlic salt, ½ teaspoon dill weed and onion powder in a small bowl. Place remaining ¼ teaspoon dill weed and panko in a separate small bowl, mixing to combine. 

Scrub potato and cut into bite-size peices. Dip each piece into sour cream mixture then roll in panko mixture. Place in a single layer on prepared baking sheet and spray with cooking oil. 

Bake in preheated oven for 55-60 minutes, stirring halfway through, or until bites are golden brown. 

Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Appetizers 
Breakfast Potatoes 
Potlucks & Picnics 
Thanksgiving 

START RECIPE

VEGAN MUSHROOM TENDERS 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
one pack of king oyster mushroom ( 4 in a pack usually) 

generous amount of oil for frying 

for wet batter: 

3.5 oz of popato starch 

1/2 cup water 

2 tsp garlic powder 

2 tsp chili powder 

1 tsp cayenne pepper 

1 1/2 tsp oregano 

1 tsp onion powder 

1 tsp black pepper 

1/2 tsp salt (add more if you like salty food) 

for dry batter 

3 oz whole wheat flour 

.7 oz potato starch 

 

 
 
What you do:  
1. wash mushrooms and store in freezer overnight  

2. thaw it for 5~10 min 

3. cut each mushrooms into 4 pieces and then slit the left and right side of quartered mushrooms  

3. mix all wet batter ingredients in a bowl and put mushrooms in, coat them well 

4. mix dry batter in a zip lock bag and put mushrooms in and shake them well 

5. heat oil and fry them twice for golden brown color  

Preparation Time:  
30min 
Cooking Time:  
15~20 min 
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Batter-Fried Appetizers 


START RECIPE

FRIED TOFU WONTONS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
7 ounces firm organic tofu, drained and pressed 
1 tablespoon light soy sauce 
1/2 teaspoon toasted sesame oil 
1/2-1 teaspoon Sriracha sauce 
1 tablespoon minced scallions 
1 teaspoon dried minced onion 
1/2 teaspoon cumin powder 
1/4 teaspoon turmeric 
1-2 pinches salt 
1 tablespoon cornstarch + 2 tablespoons water 
1 (48 count) package vegan wonton wrappers (I use Twin Marquis) 
1-2 tablespoons oil 

What you do:  
1. In a bowl, break down the pressed tofu into a meal like texture. Then add the remaining ingredients except the cornstarch, wontons, and oil, and stir to properly mix. Place in the fridge. 
2. Make a vegan egg by mixing the cornstarch and water. Use a brush to wet the edges of the wontons with the vegan egg mix, and place about 1 to 1 1/2 teaspoons tofu in the center of each wonton. 
3. Fold into a triangle ensuring that the edges are sealed (also avoid air pockets). Then take one wet corner and fold it over the other to create desired shape. Again ensure the corners are sealed against each other. 
4. Pan sear the wontons in the oil at medium heat for about 1 minute on each side. If the oil is too hot, the wontons will burn and, if it is too low, they will be greasy. Place hot fried wontons on a paper towel and salt. 
I serve this with low sodium soy sauce mixed with sriracha and a few drops of toasted sesame oil and it is wicked awesome. 
For picture instructions, see blog: 
Source of recipe: http://thewitchykitchen.blogspot.com/2010/05/tasty-tofu-wontons.htmlcom... 

Preparation Time:  
45 minutes, Cooking time: 2 to 3 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
2 to 3 minutes 
Servings:  
6 to 8 
Recipe Category:  
Wonton Rolls 



START RECIPE

AVOCADO CUCUMBER MAKI AND SWEET POTATO NIGIRI 
 
View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
2 1/2 cups cooked brown rice  

1 lemon, juiced  

1 1/2 tablespoons agave  

3 nori sheets  

1 avocado, cut into sticks  

1 cucumber, cut into sticks  

sprinkle toasted sesame seeds  

1 sweet potato, peeled, sliced and boiled  

What you do:  
1. Cook the rice according to the package directions. When the rice is ready, stir in the lemon juice and agave using a metal spoon (not a fork, or else it will become too fluffy). Chill the rice for about 1/2 hour or until cold enough to hold its shape well. 

2. For right side out maki, use a cutting board or a bamboo mat, and lay 1 sheet nori smooth side down on the board. Grab a handful of the sushi rice and plop it in the middle of the sheet (have a bowl of water nearby, your hands will get a bit sticky). 

3. Spread a very thin layer of rice, line up avocado and cucumber at 1 end of the nori sheet, and just start rolling it up! The nori will soften from the moisture of the rice so be careful not to rip it! Chill in the fridge to let it set and then cut into pieces with a sharp, non-serrated knife. Wet the knife every now and then to get the stickiness off. 

4. For inside out maki rolls, lay a piece of plastic wrap onto cutting board or mat. Then place the nori on top, this time rough side down. Spread a thin layer of rice onto the smooth side and then flip over only the nori, leaving the plastic wrap on the board. Line up fillings and roll using the plastic wrap to protect your hands. Sprinkle the roll with toasted sesame seeds and cut into pieces. 

5. For the nigiri, cut the cooked sweet potato slices into rectangles and chill in the fridge until cold. Mold the remaining sushi rice into small rectangular prisms (grade 5 geometry taught me well) and chill in the fridge. When you are ready to eat the nigiri, simply place a sweet potato slice onto the rice shape. See more recipes like this at: http://sketch-freeveganeating.blogspot.com/ Source of recipe: I wrote this recipe. 

Preparation Time:  
25 minutes 
Servings:  
20 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Appetizers 



START RECIPE
PERFECT FALAFEL 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
2 1/2 cups garbanzo beans, soaked 
1 cup onion, chopped 
3/4 cup parsley leaves 
1 tablespoon coriander seeds 
1 tablespoon cumin seeds 
3 teaspoons sea salt 
2 tablespoons egg replacer  
2 tablespoons whole meal flour 
canola oil, as needed for frying 

What you do:  
1. Put the garbanzos in a blender and mince until you have a fine crumbly texture.Take out the beans and put the onion and parsley into the food processor. Blend until finely minced (but not puree). 
2. Slightly roast the coriander and cumin seeds over a low heat in frying pan (just until they start to smell and brown ever so slightly), then grind them. 
3. In a big bowl, place the garbanzos and mix in the spices, the onion with the parsley, and then the egg replacer and flour. Let sit for a while to let flavors blend. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F if keeping patties warm. 
4. Make small patties and fry in medium-hot canola oil until brown on both sides (turning over a couple of times). Place on paper towels to let them drain. 
5. Put them in oven so that they may finish cooking on the inside (just in case). 
These little wonders will never break apart during frying because they have the egg replacer and the flour inside which binds everything together nicely. Also, the inclusion of any oil in any falafel mixture will make the water content and the oil to separate the ingredients and cause trouble, so no worries this time! 

Preparation Time:  
1 hour 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Falafel 


START RECIPE

CHEESY BROCCOLI RICE CASSEROLE WITH CHICKPEAS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1½ cups uncooked long grain brown rice 
3 cups warm water 
1 quart vegetable broth (divided into 3 cups and 1 cup) 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
½ cup chopped white onion 
3 cups chopped fresh broccoli 
¼ cup water 
1 (15-ounce) can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 
1 (8-ounce) container chive and garlic imitation cream cheese 
1 cup vegan shredded cheddar cheese, plus more for the top 
¼ teaspoon salt 
¼ teaspoon ground black pepper 

What you do:  
Soak rice in 3 cups warm water for 6-8 hours. Drain, rinse and place rice in a medium-size pot. Add 3 cups vegetable broth, bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for 30 minutes. Keep covered, remove from heat and allow to rest for 10 minutes. 

Preheat oven to 350º F. Lightly grease a 9” x 13” casserole dish and set aside. 

Meanwhile, in a large, wide pot with lid, heat olive oil over medium heat. Add onion and broccoli and stir for 1 minute. Add ¼ cup water, cover and continue to cook for an additional 5 minutes or until broccoli and onion are tender. Do not remove the lid during this time as it will allow steam to escape. Remove pot from heat and add remaining ingredients, including cooked rice and remaining 1 cup vegetable broth, stirring to combine. 

Spread mixture into prepared dish and sprinkle with extra vegan shredded cheese. Bake in preheated oven for 15-20 minutes or until cheese is melted. 

Recipe Category:  
Chickpeas (Garbanzo Beans) 
Rice Casseroles 
Potlucks & Picnics 
Brown Rice 


START RECIPE
FRUITIE SMOOTHIE 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
2 cups of frozen fruit mix (strawberry, mangos, peaches, pineapple) 

1 scoop of dairy-free ice cream (I use rice dream) 

1 cup soymilk 

1 1/2 tablespoon agave nectar 

What you do: 
1) (in given order) put all ingredients in the blender 

2) blend & serve 

Preparation Time:  
5min 
Servings:  
2
Recipe Category:  
Shakes & Smoothies 


START RECIPE

AVOCADO AWESOMENESS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 very ripe medium banana (the more ripe, the more sweet/less bitter it will be)  
1 ripe baby avocado (or 1/2 regular size avocado)  
non-dairy beverage  
sweetener of your choice - to taste  
1 tablespoon ground flaxseed (optional)  
1 scoop protein powder (optional)  
ice - 4-6 cubes  

What you do:  
I usually put cold rice milk in first (you can use any plain or vanilla beverage - I use organic rice milk, which is not vanilla but still slightly sweet) - up to almost the top of the blending metal things. The more beverage you add, the more liquidy your smoothie will be. 
Then add chopped up banana and avocado. Blend until the smoothie is a nice, even green color. Add the flaxseed and protein powder - blend until the specks seem to be evenly distributed. 
Now is the time to taste - if the smoothie is too liquidy, try adding another 1/2 or whole banana. If the smoothie is too bitter, add sweetener to your taste. If the smoothie is too warm (I always use cold rice milk, so I only sometimes have to add ice), add ice. Pulverized ice generally makes for a smoother smoothie - since my ice cubes rarely get completely churned. 
Pour into a large mug or glass, and enjoy! This is my favorite breakfast smoothie. 
Source of recipe: I wrote this recipe. 

Preparation Time:  
5-10 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
1 
Recipe Category:  
Shakes & Smoothies 


START RECIPE
PUMPKIN LATTE 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 tablespoon pureed pumpkin 
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon, plus more for topping 
1/2 cup soymilk or soy creamer 
Pinch nutmeg 
1 to 2 teaspoons raw sugar, to taste 
1 teaspoon brown sugar (optional) 
1 cup fresh coffee 
Vegan whipped 'cream' 

What you do:  
1) Mix pumpkin, cinnamon, soymilk and nutmeg with sugar and warm until steamy. Next, add soymilk mixture to coffee. Top with vegan whipped 'cream' and cinnamon. 

Preparation Time:  
5 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
1 
Recipe Category:  
Coffee 


START RECIPE
EGGNOG 
 
View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 banana 
1 cup almond milk 
1 tsp agave nectar 
1 tsp vanilla 
1/2 tsp cinnamon 
1/4 tsp nutmeg 
spiced rum or brandy (optional) 

What you do: 
1. In a blender, combine banana, almond milk, agave nectar, vanilla, cinnamon, and nutmeg. 

2. Cold Option: If you prefer it cool, add alcohol to the blender and mix. 

3. Warm Option: If you prefer it warm, place in saucepan over low-medium heat: heat until warm. Pour in glass and add spiced rum or brandy, if desired. 

Serve and enjoy! 
Recipe Category:  
Egg nog 


START RECIPE
HOMEMADE VEGETARIAN HOT POCKETS 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
1 can Pillsbury seamless dough sheet 
1 cup Kale (washed and chopped roughly) 
4 Artichoke Hearts (I bought canned artichoke, drained them of their water and chopped them) 
1 tablespoon vegan butter (I like Earth Balance) 
1 tablespoon flour 
1/2 cup vegan creamer (I like coconut creamer) 
1 cup shredded vegan cheddar cheese (I like Daiya) 
Dash pepper 
Dash garlic salt 

What you do:  
1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Place a small saute pan on medium high heat and spray with cooking spray. Add chopped artichokes and kale to the pan and saute for about 5-6 minutes, or until kale is wilted, sprinkle with a little garlic salt. Set aside. 

2. In a small sauce pan on medium high heat, melt butter and add the flour, stir until completly combined. Pour in your creamer and whisk until thick, about 4 minutes. Add 1/2 cup of your shredded cheese, whisk until completely melted and combined. You should have a nice thick white sauce. 

3. Roll out your dough sheet on too parchment paper - I had to re-roll mine due to the packaging ripping the dough. Evenly divide the dough into 4 equal rectangles. Add about 3 tablespoons of the white sauce to the middle of 2 rectangles (keep the filling in the middle away from the edges so it can seal well), add 2-3 tablespoons of your artichoke and kale mixture, top with some extra cheddar cheese. 

4. Take your other rectangle half and do a water or vegan milk wash on the seams of the dough, cover your filling and sealing the sides by using a fork to crimp down the edges. Brush some water or vegan milk on top of the dough and sprinkle with garlic salt. Transfer the parchment paper with your pockets onto a cookie sheet and bake for 20 minutes. 

Preparation Time:  
20 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
20 minutes 
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Biscuits, Rolls & Buns 



START RECIPE

OATMEAL BREAD TO LIVE FOR 
 
View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 1/4 cups hot water 
2 teaspoons canola oil 
1 tablespoon brown sugar 
1 cup oatmeal 
2 to 2 1/4 cups whole wheat flour 
1 1/4 teaspoons yeast 
1 teaspoon sea salt 
1 tablespoon vital wheat gluten 
1 tablespoon sunflower seeds 

What you do:  
1. Put water, oil and vegan sugar in the bread machine. Add the oatmeal and let it sit for 5 minutes. 
2. Add 2 cups flour. Make a well in the middle of the flour for the yeast, add yeast, and carefully add the salt around the edges. Add vital wheat gluten. 
3. Turn on the bread machine. (Use a setting for 1 1/2 pound loaf: dark if you have it.) If the dough seems too sticky, add additional flour as required. When you have a nice dough going, add the sunflower seeds. 
This is a sturdy loaf, very nourishing. Great with salads, soups, as sandwiches or toasted with jam. In the winter, spring, summer, fall. '

Preparation Time:  
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Bread Machine Recipes 


START RECIPE
GRILLED ROSEMARY GARLIC POLENTA 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1/4 cup olive oil 
1/2 red onion, minced 
5 cloves garlic, minced 
1 teaspoon rosemary, ground in spice grinder 
dash cayenne 
salt, to taste 
3 3/4 cups low sodium broth 
1 cup coarse corn meal 
1/2 cup nondairy milk, optional 

What you do:  
1. Grease a casserole dish. In a large pot, bring onions to a simmer in the oil and let them cook until they are sweating. Stir in the garlic. When fragrant, add ground seasonings. Be conservative with the cayenne as it heats up any dish fast! 
2. Stir seasonings around for 20 seconds until a little toasted. Pour in the broth and bring to a boil. Cascade in the cornmeal while whisking quickly and reduce heat to medium. Stir the polenta very well every few minutes. It should be at most gently bubbling. 
3. It will take about 30 minutes for it to congeal nicely. If it looks a little dry, add a little water. If desired, right before it's done, add the nondairy milk for extra creaminess. You can scoop up a little in a spoon, and if after a minute it is pretty gelatinous, not mushy, then it's done. 
4. Pour molten polenta into prepared casserole dish and let refrigerate at least an hour before working with it. After chilling, cut polenta into pretty firm squares. 
5. Fire up your George Foreman grill, panini press or skillet and grill squares until top and bottom are crispy. If you use a pan, you shouldn't need to use extra oil since there is enough in it already. 
It goes great with gazpacho or a cool bean salad. Polenta is like corn bread, only so much better! Nothing dry here. Home made polenta is involved, but easy and so much better than those store bought tubes. Happy cooking! 
Source of recipe: I wrote this. 

Preparation Time:  
5 to start, Cooking time: 40 min 
Cooking Time:  
40 min 
Servings:  
4 
Recipe Category:  
Cornbread 


START RECIPE
CHOCOLATE ZUCCHINI BREAD 
 
View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
5 tablespoons ground flax + 10 tablespoons water 
3 cups flour 
1/4 cup cocoa powder 
1 tablespoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups sugar 
1 cup vegetable oil 
2/3 cup nondairy milk (I use soy) 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cups zucchini, shredded 
1 cup vegan semi-sweet chocolate chips 
1 cup walnuts, chopped, optional 

What you do:  
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 2 9x5 loaf pans with nonstick spray. For flax eggs, microwave flax meal and water for 30 seconds, stir, microwave, 30 more seconds, and stir again.
2. Combine all dry ingredients in a large bowl and mix well. Add vegetable oil, and use a fork to stir. It will be dry but stir as well as possible. Then add the flax eggs. Continue to mix.
3. Add milk and vanilla, and stir until well blended. Add zucchini, chocolate chips and walnuts, if using, and blend them in. The mixture should be nice and smooth: moist looking.
4. Spoon into prepared loaf pans. Bake 55-60 minutes. Cool in pans for 10 minutes, then remove and cool completely. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and it will keep for days (if your family doesn't gobble it up).
This is my Nana's recipe that I've converted to a delicious vegan zucchini bread. 

Preparation Time:  
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Zucchini Bread 


START RECIPE
BANANA BERRY COCONUT YOGURT PARFAIT 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
Meat from 1 young Thai coconut  

1/2 cup coconut water 

4 to 6 dates, soaked to help blend 

juice of 1/2 lemon 

1/2 sliced banana (fresh or frozen) 

1/2 cup mixed berries (fresh or frozen) 

1/2 Tb finely shredded coconut for garnish 

 

What you do:  
Place all ingredients in blender except for banana and berries, and blend till completely smooth. In a decorative glass, layer yogurt and fruit evenly. Garnish with finely shredded coconut. 

 

 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Breakfast Recipes 
Yogurt 
Raw Food 
Miscellaneous Raw Recipes 
Raw Breakfasts 


START RECIPE
FLUFFY, MELT-IN-YOUR-MOUTH BLUEBERRY COCONUT PANCAKES 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
2 cups all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 (13.5-ounce) can coconut milk 
1/4 cup coconut oil 
1 cup blueberries, rinsed 
oil for the pan 

What you do:  
1. In a medium-size bow, mix together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Add coconut milk and oil, mixing until combined. Carefully fold in blueberries. 
2. Spray a small frying pan with oil and preheat over medium-low heat. Pour approximately 1/4 cup batter into the pan and spread into a 5? circle. Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, or until the bottom is lightly browned. Flip over and cook an additional 1 minute or so on the other side. Once the pancake is golden brown, remove from pan and place on a plate. Repeat with remainder of batter until all has been used. 
Half & Half Pancakes: prepare as above except use 1 cup all-purpose flour + 1 cup whole wheat flour. 
Source of recipe: I came up with this recipe because I've found that coconut milk makes nice, moist quick breads. So why not combine blueberries and coconut? The result is light, fluffy, melt-in-your-mouth pancakes. 

Preparation Time:  
5 minutes, Cooking time: 25 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
25 minutes 
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Pancakes 


START RECIPE

VEGAN GLUTEN-FREE PANCAKES 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
1-1/2 cups brown rice flour 

1/4 cup coconut flour 

2 eggs (Bob's Red Hill Egg Replacement 

1 tablespoon baking powder 

1-1/2 cups vanilla almond milk 

1 teaspoon olive oil 

What you do:  
1.  Mix dry ingredients.   

2.  Mix egg replacement and add to dry ingredients.   

3.  Add almond milk and oil and mix well.  

Makes approximately 6 4-inch pancakes. 

Preparation Time:  
10 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
5 minutes 
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Miscellaneous Breakfast Recipes 



START RECIPE
EASY HOMEMADE GRANOLA 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 cup sunflower seeds (hulls removed) 
1/2 cup sesame seeds 
1/4 cup almonds (slivered or chopped) 
3 cups rolled oats 
1/4 cup flour 
1/2 cup brown sugar or apple juice concentrate, mixed with 1/2 cup water 
5 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon vanilla 
3 to 4 tablespoons natural maple syrup 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1/2 cup dried fruit, such as raisins, apricot pieces, cherries, or cranberries 

What you do:  
1) Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. 
2) In a skillet containing no oil or liquid, combine the seeds and nuts. Heat over a low flame, stirring frequently, just until you start smelling a toasty warm aroma. (Keep ing and don't let them burn.) You can also toast them for 2 minutes in a pan in a toaster oven set on a low setting. 
3) In a large bowl, combine the toasted seeds and nuts with the remaining ingredients, except dried fruit. Spread the mixture onto 2 cookie sheets and bake for about 20 minutes, or until golden, turning the mixture frequently with a spatula or a wooden spoon while baking. Remove from oven and leave granola on pan while cooling. Add dried fruit to granola and stir to combine. Store in an airtight container. 

Preparation Time:  
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
Recipe Category:  
Granola 


START RECIPE
GARBANZO TACOS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans (1 can, drained) 
1 (1 1/4 ounce) packet vegan taco seasoning 
lettuce, shredded, to taste 
6 large tortillas or 12 hard taco shells 
tomatoes, chopped, to taste 
onions, diced, to taste 
salsa, to taste 

What you do:  
1. Dump both cans of beans into a skillet (but use the liquid from only one can). Dump in the taco seasoning. 
2. Stir and let simmer for about 10-15 minutes. 
3. Add beans and other ingredients to your tacos, burritos, and/or taco salads. 
Especially good recipe for those who aren't crazy about the flavor of garbanzo beans. The seasoning takes over. 

Preparation Time:  
15 min 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
6 
Recipe Category:  
Tacos 


START RECIPE
TASTY TACOS 
 your own photos 
What you need:  
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 medium onion, diced 
1 medium bell pepper, diced 
2 cups frozen corn 
1 – 12 ounce package vegan beef crumbles 
1- 15 ounce can black beans, drained 
2 tablespoons taco seasoning  
1/2 cup water 
3 cups cooked brown rice 
12 fajita-sized tortillas 

What you do:  
1) Add oil to a large pot and heat over medium heat. Add onions, bell peppers, and corn and cook until softened. Stir in beef crumbles and beans and heat through. Add taco seasoning and water and allow to simmer and thicken. Stir in cooked rice. 

2) Fill tortillas with filling and your favorite taco toppings. Enjoy! 

Good fillings for these are vegan sour cream, fresh cilantro, vegan cheese, hot sauce, and your favorite vegetables. 

Preparation Time:  
5 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
20 minutes 
Servings:  
6 to 8 
Recipe Category: 
Tacos 
Mexican 


START RECIPE
YUMMY CARNE SOYCHILADAS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 (12 ounce) package vegan ground beef 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
2 tablespoons minced garlic 
sea salt and pepper, to taste 
1-2 teaspoons taco seasoning 
1/2 yellow onion, chopped 
2 tablespoons al yeast flakes + more for sprinkling 
1/2 cup vegan cream cheese 
1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chilies 
2/3 (15 ounce) can fire roasted diced tomatoes with garlic 
2 (10 ounce) cans red enchilada sauce, divided 
16 medium flour tortillas 
3/4 cup green enchilada sauce 
1 cup vegan sour cream 

What you do:  
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Cook ground beef and minced garlic in olive oil and season with pepper, salt, and taco seasoning. Add onion and cook until it starts to get soft. 
2. Reduce to low setting and add al yeast, cream cheese, green chilies and the fire roasted tomatoes. Mix all together and cook for another 10 minutes. Spread 1/2 can red enchilada sauce onto the bottom of 11x15 baking dish. Prepare tortillas in microwave for 1 minute or so until they are slightly warm. 
3. Start filling tortillas with the vegan ground beef mixture with a couple heaping spoonfuls per tortilla. Roll and place each enchilada seam side down in the prepared baking dish. Reserve 2 heaping spoonfuls filling. Finish filling all 16 tortillas. 
4. Pour remaining red enchilada sauce over each enchilada making sure each one gets it spread over top, you may have to use a spoon to achieve this. In a separate bowl, mix together the green enchilada sauce, sour cream and the reserved 2 spoonfuls of the enchilada mixture. Season, to taste. 
5. Pour mixture over top of enchiladas using spoon to spread evenly. Sprinkle more al yeast flakes and more pepper atop all enchiladas before baking. Cover with aluminum foil and bake for 35-45 minutes, or until bubbling and showing signs it is done! Enjoy! 
This is my first posting. Please go easy on me if you have any criticisms. 
Source of recipe: I totally created this recipe one day! I love enchiladas and decided to experiment with ingredients to create a super fast, easy, moist and creamy vegan enchilada dish. 

Preparation Time:  
25 min., Cooking time: 35-45 min 
Cooking Time:  
35-45 min 
Servings:  
8 
Recipe Category:  
Enchiladas 


START RECIPE
SPINACH AND BEAN QUESADILLAS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 (10 ounce) box frozen chopped spinach, defrosted 
1 (15 ounce) can fava beans 
garlic, to taste 
cumin, to taste 
chili powder, to taste 
salt and pepper, to taste 
oil or cooking spray, as needed 
1/2 cup diced roasted red peppers 
1/4 cup salsa 
2 cups shredded vegan cheese, divided 
tortillas, to serve 

What you do:  
1. Using blender, add spinach and half the beans with some of their liquid. Pulse until smooth, then add rest of beans. 
2. Add in the garlic, cumin, chili powder, and salt and pepper all according to your taste. Pulse in blender briefly. Meanwhile, heat frying pan on medium high with your choice of oil. 
3. Pour blender mixture into bowl and add peppers, salsa, and one cup of vegan cheese. Mix well. (you can even make this the night before if you like.) 
4. Spread some mixture on 1/2 tortilla, and sprinkle extra cheese on top of mixture. Fold tortilla in half and cook a few minutes on each side until golden brown and piping hot. yum!' 

Recipe Category:  
Quesadillas 


START RECIPE
CHICKEN SOFT TACOS 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1 cup textured soy protein chunks 
1 cup vegetable broth 
oregano, to taste 
thyme, to taste 
marjoram, to taste 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1/4 cup onion, finely chopped 
1 clove garlic, finely chopped 
1 jalapeno pepper, deseeded and finely chopped, optional 
2 tomatoes, diced 
1 teaspoon lime juice 
1-2 teaspoons chili powder 
1 teaspoon cumin 
1/2 teaspoon oregano 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
4 whole wheat tortillas 

What you do:  
1. Bring vegetable broth to a boil, remove from heat and add soy protein chunks. Add a couple dashes of oregano, thyme and marjoram. Soak until the chunks are soft and liquid absorbed. 
2. In a medium sized saucepan, heat oil over medium heat. Add onion, garlic and jalapeno and saute until softened. Add textured soy protein, tomatoes, lime juice and spices. 
3. Simmer until the tomatoes have cooked down, about 5 minutes or so. Remove from heat and fold into soft wheat tortillas and top with suggested toppings. 
I like to garnish with lettuce, green onion, olives, plain vegan yogurt, or vegan sour cream. 

Preparation Time:  
30 minutes 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
2 
Recipe Category:  
Tacos 


START RECIPE
PRALINE SWEET POTATO CASSEROLE 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
[u]Sweet Potato Casserole[/u]: 
4 cups cooked, mashed sweet potatoes or yams 
1/3 cup orange juice 
1/4 cup brown sugar 
3 tablespoons melted vegan margarine 
2 tablespoons brandy 
1 teaspoon grated orange peel, or more to taste 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger or 1 tablespoon fresh grated 
1/4 teaspoon allspice 
1/8 teaspoon pepper  
1/3 cup brown sugar 
1/2 cup chopped pecans 
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

What you do:  
1. Sweet Potato Casserole: In a bowl, combine all casserole ingredients and mix well with an electric beater. 
2. Pour into a well-greased 2-quart shallow casserole. 
3. Praline Topping: In another bowl, thoroughly combine all topping ingredients. Evenly sprinkle topping over casserole. 
4. Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 30 minutes 

Preparation Time:  
Cooking Time:  
30 minutes 
Servings:  
4 to 6 
Recipe Category:  
Thanksgiving Casseroles 


START RECIPE
TACO CASSEROLE 

View photos submitted by others |  your own photos 
What you need:  
1/2 package of Boca Burger meat substitute 
1 package taco seasoning (check ingredients) 
water 
1 15-oz can corn 
1 small can tomato sauce 
totilla chips 
1 15-oz can of beans (refried or black) 
1/2 onion diced 
non-stick cooking spray 
2 cups grated soy cheese 

What you do:  
Spray pan with non stick spray. Warm the meat substitute a few minutes. Put in onion and taco seasoning, using the amount of water called for on the taco seasoning package. Cook for a few minutes, add tomato sauce and corn. Cook a few more minutes. 
Put chips on bottom of a deep 9 inch casserole dish (crunched a little bit, not too small). Pour mixture over chips, then cheese, then more chips, mixture, cheese. The mixture should be the last layer on the casserole. Then put a layer of beans and more cheese. 
Bake at 350 degrees for 15-20 minutes until hot. Very yummy! 

Preparation Time:  
15 min 
Cooking Time:  
Servings:  
6 
Recipe Category:  
Mexican Casseroles 



START RECIPE 

Caramelized Endive and Blue Cheese Tart 
39 comments - 01.12.2018 
Save 

When I first heard about tarte Tatin, nothing sounded better to me. What first seems like way too many apples packed into a skillet, then caramelized and baked under a blanket of buttery pastry, then turned out and served warm, became one of my favorite desserts. 

I’ve had recipes for them in several of my books, but also enjoy the savory version. I’ve seen upside down tarts made with fennel, tomatoes, carrots, and other root vegetables, but an upside-down caramelized tart with Belgian endive always appeals to me the most. The contrast between the slightly bitter, chewy, spears of endive, make the base for a perfect savory tart, especially in the winter. And I don’t think anyone would disagree. 


Save 

I’ve mentioned before that in France, Belgian endive isn’t considered a luxury ingredient and is widely available, even in supermarkets, where it’s sold by the kilo (2.2 pound) bag. I seem to always have some since it’s so good added to a winter salad, perhaps with pears, pomegranates, and blue cheese, or braised and baked into a savory gratin. 

Save 

A while back, someone called me out for being pretentious when writing “bleu” cheese, so I’ve been doing my best to call it blue cheese. (Fortunately endive, and endive, are the same words in English and in French, so you don’t have to suffer through me on that one.) However even in English, bleu sounds better, and I think people know what it means without having to translate it. So you can use any kind of blue, or bleu, cheese that you’d like in this tart. The stronger, the better. 

Save 

Save 

The dough is pretty simple to put together. And since you’re not really going to see it, it doesn’t matter if the sides are perfect, or if it buckles and rises in places. 

Save 

Once baked, under a crackly, crispy disk, most sins are forgiven, even bleu, or blue ones. And who can quibble with a warm, savory tart on a cold winter day? I know I can’t. 

Save 

While this caramelized endive tart is especially good right out of the oven, it’s also excellent reheated and served the next day for lunch. You could also cut it into smaller wedges and serve it as an appetizer, and if you’re not fond of blue cheese, slightly aged goat cheese would work just as well. 

Save   

Caramelized Endive and Blue Cheese Tart 
6 servings 
You could dress this up with some black olives or branches of thyme baked with the endive.I bought puff pastry for this tart because I felt like it. (Actually, I had a gazillion things to do and there are worse problems in the world than using store-bought puff pastry made with all butter.) But if you want to make your own, you're welcome to. If you'd rather use a standard tart dough for this, make the tart dough that goes with this quiche recipe.If you like a lot of cheese, have some extra bits handy to strew over the finished tart, when it's warm from the oven. (The heat of the tart should melt the cheese, but you can coax it along with a butter knife.)  
Chopped chives or parsley would make a nice garnish. 
2 tablespoons butter, salted or unsalted 
1 pound (450g) Belgian endive, about 7 spears 
kosher or sea salt 
freshly ground black pepper 
1 teaspoon sugar or honey 
4 ounces (115g) blue cheese, cubed, plus additional cubes if you wish, for finishing the tart 
8 ounces (230g) puff pastry 
1. Preheat the oven to 350ºF (180º). 
2. Melt the butter in a 9-inch (23cm) cast iron skillet. Cut the Belgian endive spears in half lengthwise. Sprinkle some salt and pepper over the melted butter in the pan and lay the endive spears, cut side down, in the bottom of the pan. They may not all seem to fit right now, but really try to crowd them in together, so they're as close as possible. 
3. Cook the endive spears over medium-high heat, pressing them down as they cook, but doing your best not to disturb or move them around, so they brown nicely on the underside. Once the cut sides of the endive are well-browned about 4 minutes, sprinkle the endives with the sugar or drizzle with honey, cover the pan and put in the oven to bake until the endive spears are almost cooked through, about 25 minutes, depending on their size. 
4. Remove the pan of endive from the oven. Distribute the blue cheese cubes in the spaces between the endives, as well as on top of them. 
5. On a lightly floured surface, roll the puff pastry to a 12-inch (31cm) circle. Drape the dough over the endives, and tuck the outside edges of the dough between the endives and the inside of the pan. 
6. Bake the tart until the crust is deep golden brown, about 25 minutes. Remove from the oven and overturn a serving platter on top. Holding both the pan and the plate, wearing oven mitts (being careful since some very hot liquid may drip out of the pan when doing this), turn both the plate and pan over to release the tart from the pan. Reunite any endive spears that may have stuck to the pan and bits of cheese. If you'd like, add a few more cubes of blue cheese over the top, while the tart is still warm. 
Serving: Serve the tart warm. If you want to make it in advance, it can be rewarmed in a moderate oven, on a baking sheet. It's best the same day it's made. 

It's great with a green salad made of winter greens, such as escarole, radicchio, or frisée drizzled with walnut or hazelnut oil and a bit of sea salt. It's also a good lunch along with a simple green salad with a dressing made with sherry vinegar and minced shallots. 

Caramelized Endive and Blue Cheese Tart: A great French recipe for lunch or dinner 
Pin 
218 
Share 
375 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 593 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Endive and Ham Gratin 

French Tomato Tart 

Upside Down Cake Recipe 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: belgian endive blue cheese cheese lunch puff pastry recip tart 



START RECIPE 

Giant Bean Gratin 
75 comments - 01.03.2018 
Save 

I spent much of the fall and winter running around, while a pile of cookbooks waited patiently for me to cook from them. Now that I’m back in the saddle, and in the kitchen, I’m getting around to some of the many recipes that I’ve bookmarked. One of the first that caught my eye was the “Pizza beans” in Smitten Kitchen Every Day. 

Save 

It also goes by the adult name, “Tomato and Gigante Bean Bake,” but since Deb Perelman, of Smitten Kitchen, has two kids, calling them “pizza” made them more alluring than “bean bake.” Me? I need no excuse to simmer up a pot of beans, especially in the winter, when I am looking for any excuse to keep the oven fires burning. 

Save 

There was a movement when everyone was told not to salt dried beans when cooking them. And to throw a wrench in another possible misconception, Russ Parsons says you don’t even need to pre-soak them. 

As someone who has, so far, managed to resist the allure of adding a slow cooker, pressure cooker, or slow pressure cooker, to what seems to be the ever-shrinking space in my admittedly more-spacious-than-before kitchen, I still pre-soak beans. Even though I trust Mr. Parsons 99 percent, I’m a 1 percenter and still waiting for someone to prepare a side-by-side comparison to see how they come out. Then I turned to the internet and, of course, Kenji did it. 

Then there’s the controversy around adding salt to the water while the beans are cooking. Food needs to cook with salt, and doesn’t taste the same when it’s salted afterward. (I got into a tiff with a butcher in Paris about that, when I was served an unsalted steak.) So I add salt when the beans are partially cooked, to split the difference. The real enemy of dried beans is hard water, which I found out the hard way (no pun intended…) when I was cooking dried beans in France and they refused to soften in the mineral-rich water. A teaspoon of baking soda added to the water will often do the trick, and some people use bottled water. Buying dried beans that are less than a year old is helpful, too. 

Save 
Save 

I’m not sure these kinds of beans have a name in French, except for perhaps géant. Haricots des Soissons are excellent and would work well. I found mine in a market that specializes in Turkish ingredients, but in the U.S., Rancho Gordo Royal Corona beans are A+. 

(Sharp-eyed readers, and even those that aren’t so sharp-eyed, will see that I cooked the vegetables in one pot, which I did the day before, due to time constraints. I wasn’t just doing it to add some pretty colors in the pictures. I’ve put those notes at the end of the recipe in case you want to make part of this gratin ahead.) 

Save 

Once done, the beans are mixed with the vegetables and crushed tomatoes. After spending some time under the broiler, the cheese on top becomes bubbly and brown, like Belgian endive gratin. 

Save 

Save 

Unlike Deb’s kids, my charge, Romain, isn’t reluctant to eat beans. And he didn’t need any urging when he had his first taste of garlic bread. 

Save 

But really, isn’t there anything not to like about a loaf of crusty bread, smeared with lots of garlic, good butter, and sprinkled with some Parmesan cheese before being toasted under a broiler, until the center of the bread is soaked with what tastes like liquid garlic, and the top is brittle, slightly salty from the cheese, and crunchy-brown? I think not. 

Save 

A couple of things about this gratin. This was designed to be family friendly, and with two toddlers, I suspect Deb was keeping it on the tamer side. If you want a little more oomph to it, feel free to add some crumbled cooked sausage, bacon, or diced chiles. Next time I might add a handful of chopped fresh sage, oregano, or basil to the mix. 

Save 

Unless you’ve got some hearty appetites in your household, you’ll likely have leftovers. You can put them in a smaller gratin dish and warm them in the oven, then add more cheese and run it under the broiler. 

Save 

To be honest, this gratin sustained us through three meals. And since I’m being honest (and because I couldn’t figure out for the life of me how to change the color of my enamelware dishes in Photoshop), it was best the third day, when all the ingredients had plenty of time to meld into a hearty, cheesy, bubbling gratin. It also gave me an excuse to make garlic bread again, and again, and again. 

Giant Bean Gratin 
8 servings 
Adapted from Smitten Kitchen Every Day by Deb PerelmanI used kale, but other sturdy greenery, like Swiss chard, broccolini, or mustard greens, would work. I made a few suggestions in the post about adding meat or extra herbs.You'll need to start with 1 pound (450g) of uncooked beans to get the right amount for the recipe. Coronas are ideal, but the beans I used didn't have the variety listed on the package. I know that there's a Polish bean that's quite large, and found an interesting blog post about them, along with some beans that are similar. Whatever you use, reserve some of the bean liquid if you want to use it in place of the wine (in step 2), and to add back to the beans before cooking, in place of the stock.Whatever you use, try to find the largest beans you can. This is a recipe where size matters. 
2 tablespoons olive oil  
1 large onion, peeled and diced 
1 carrot, peeled and diced 
salt 
freshly ground black pepper 
2 cloves garlic, peeled and minced 
1/3 (80ml) cup white wine (or water, or bean liquid) 
5 cups (120g) coarsely chopped kale leaves 
2 1/4 cups (550g) canned crushed tomatoes 
1 pound (450g) giant beans, cooked drained 
about 1/2 cup (125ml) stock (vegetable or chicken) or bean liquid 
8 ounces (225g) mozzarella, coarsely grated 
1/3 cup (35g) grated Parmesan 
coarsely chopped flat-leaf parsley, for garnish 
1. If you have 2 1/2 to 3 quart (2-3l) stovetop-friendly gratin dish, use that for preparing the vegetables. (You'll be baking the gratin in the same dish.) If your gratin (or similar sized dish, like a lasagna or braising pan) can't be used on the stovetop, prepare the vegetables in a large skillet. 
2. Heat the olive oil in the dish or pan. Add the onions and carrots. Season with salt and pepper and cook until the vegetables are wilted, stirring frequently, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic, cook for another minute, then add the wine (or water or bean liquid), scraping the bottom of the pan to remove any stuck-on or browned bits of vegetables. When the wine has been absorbed, add the kale and cook until wilted. Preheat the oven to 475ºF (245ºC). 
3. Add the tomatoes and bring to a simmer. Add the drained beans and cook everything together 5 to 10 minutes, adding up to 1/2 cup of stock if the mixture looks dry. Taste, and season with additional salt, if necessary. If you've prepared the vegetables and beans in a skillet, up to this point, transfer them to an oven-safe baking dish (as mentioned in step 1). 
4. Sprinkle the mozzarella on top of the beans, then the Parmesan, and bake for 15 minutes until the cheese is melted and browned on top. If you wish, run the gratin under the broiler until the topping is browned to your liking. (If making garlic bread, you can cook it at the same time under the broiler.) Remove the gratin from the oven, top with parsley, and serve. 
Serving: Although not required, this goes well with garlic bread. Warm butter with minced garlic and a pinch of salt. Remove from heat and let cool until spreadable (You can also add some dried oregano, a pinch of red pepper flakes to the butter, and/or some chopped parsley after the bread is baked.) Split a crusty loaf of bread, like a baguette, bâtard, or what's often referred to as Italian bread in the U.S. 

Lay the bread on a sheet of foil, cut side up, smear garlic butter over the bread. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and run the bread until the broiler until the top is browned. 

Storage: If making the dish in advance, you can refrigerate the vegetable mixture for up to three days in advance. Rewarm it before adding it to the baking dish. In which case, it may need a little more liquid added when being rewarmed. 

Save 

Save 

A hearty dish made of giant white beans, tomatoes, and vegetables, under a blanket of bubbling cheese. 
Pin 
735 
Share 
1K 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 2K 
 
never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Chili with Chocolate 

Pork and Beans 

Tomato Basil Pizza 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: beans carrots cookbook Corona beans Deb Perelman garlic garlic bread gratin kale pizza Rancho Gordo recipe Smitten Kitchen Smitten Kitchen Every Day tomato 



START RECIPE 

Kig ha farz: Breton buckwheat dumpling 
40 comments - 10.21.2017 
Save 
Kig Ha Farz is a homely, but absolutely delicious, Breton specialty that even few French people know about. It’s highly unlikely that you’ll ever find it served in a restaurant, even in Brittany, which I learned on a recent trip to the region. I told friends that we were staying with that I wanted to prepare it for them, and we spent a few days trying to find a farz sack to make it in. While shopping at the outdoor markets, we ed vendors that sold housewares if they carried them, but not one of them had any idea what Kig ha farz was, let alone carry a sack for making it. 
One was even suspicious that we were from one of those “gotcha” tv shows, called enquêtes, in France, where they do undercover investigations. I saw one where they brought a hidden camera to an outdoor market where vendors were selling eggs from battery chicken farms marked as “cage-free.” (All eggs in France are stamped 0-to-3, which’ll tell you how the chickens were raised.) The eggs were sitting in pretty bets on beds of hay, but when the journalist busted them for selling battery-farmed chicken eggs as cage-free, the vendor started throwing the eggs at them. (And even other customers started yelling at them, which I didn’t quite get, because they were being sold incorrectly marketed eggs.) 

We weren’t there to bust anyone, or to have eggs tossed at us. I just wanted to make kig ha farz. 


Save 

The first time I had kig ha farz was back in 2007, a few years after I started the blog. Romain had told me about it, but couldn’t really describe it. Or if he did, I wasn’t really getting what it was. It wasn’t until a trip to Brittany where we rented a house that I got my first taste of it. The couple we were renting our guest house from ed us what we wanted as a welcome dinner, and we said “Kig ha farz.” They were surprised, and they told us we were the first people to ever  for it. But later that evening, her husband came out bearing our dinner. 

bretonwithkighafarz.jpgSave 
It’s been nearly a decade since I wrote about it, and after my recent trip, I decided to update the post. (And in case you go to Brittany and are looking to have it, you’ll have better chances of finding it if you are visiting the Finistère part of the region.) 

Save 

It’s said the tradition of simmering a dumpling-like mixture in simmering meat broth was done using the sleeve of an old men’s shirt. So if you have one lying around that you don’t mind ripping the sleeve off of, you might want to give it a try. Or you can use a big square of natural fabric that’s not too porous. As for me, I’m never letting my precious farz bag out of my sight again. 

Save 

Kig ha farz is probably one of the most unusual things that’ll ever come out of your kitchen and it’s not winning any beauty contests, which is why I first wrote about it before the age of Pinterest and Instagram. But as long-time readers know, there are a number of recipes on this site that probably won’t make it to the top of the social media or search engine heap, but I found them interesting enough to share, like plum kernel ice cream or polenta gelato, made with a type of polenta that no one can get, and an oil that I think may have been in production for all of about six days in the south of France. 

I’ve been accused of being someone that didn’t follow the herd, so apologies, but I think it’s fun to tackle a new cooking project, especially one as unusual as this one is, and it’s easy to make, no matter where you are. 

Save 

Save 

Buckwheat flour is what gives kig ha farz its hearty, earthy flavor. A reader in the U.S. recently wrote that when she made buckwheat crêpes (called galettes, in France) hers were almost black. I’d made them for years in the States and didn’t have that problem, but another reader helpfully chimed in that some buckwheat flours are whole-grain and quite dark, unlike French buckwheat flour, which they said was partially refined. 

I looked at pictures of American buckwheat flour online and didn’t notice them to be much darker than the French stuff, but the helpful reader suggested the closest replica of French buckwheat flour can be found in Japanese stores, the buckwheat flour they sell for making soba, which is sometimes mixed with wheat flour. I’m going to lug my precious farz sack along with me next time I go to the states, and give it a try. (See? I told you I wasn’t letting it out of my sight.) Some recipes do use a mix of wheat and buckwheat flour, so you could go that route as well, especially if you want something lighter. 
 
Save 

Traditionally, kig ha farz is served with a pot-au-feu, a French boiled dinner composed of long-simmered meats and vegetables. Various versions abound but all versions I’ve seen (and there aren’t that many!) involve pork belly or bacon, sausages, and vegetables. A few have beef, so you could use any recipe that you have in your repertoire to make this. Just remember that the kig ha farz needs to be cooked two hours, so it should be a recipe that meets that criterion, and has enough liquid to poach the dumpling. 

Speaking of tradition, kig ha farz is sometimes served by the slice, rather than crumbled. I’ve also seen recipes with quite a bit of sugar in the batter, up to 3/4 cup (150g). I share the Breton love of sweets, namely Kouign amann and Sablés Bretons, but I’ll save my sweet tooth for dessert. 

Save 
And I prefer Kig ha farz crumbled into little bits, which makes it easy to see why it’s referred to as “Breton couscous.” If you are a traditionalist (and let’s face it, some of us can only take that term so far before we reach for what’s handy, or what’s available where we live), you could served it with lipig; a sauce made of melted butter, shallots, and bone marrow, from the os à moelle that you could cook with the meats and vegetables. 
Mine was a speedy version, which I made for two. While I simmered the farz, I pan-fried the slab of bacon and a couple of pork chops, then added lightly simmered carrots and turnips that I prepared separately to the pan along with a few generous ladles of the cooking liquid and some stubby smoked sausages, then simmered everything together until it smelled like dinner was ready. Each plate got served with a ladle of the sauce, In lieu of the lipig, you could dab the kig ha farz with some salted butter, which I didn’t do this time, but don’t see any reason why you shouldn’t. 
Save 
Kig Ha Farz	 
Six servings 
Adapted from The French Farmhouse Cookbook by Susan Loomis.Buckwheat flour is good for people avoiding wheat flour. If you don't eat meat, this can be served with simmered root vegetables, like turnips, carrots, potatoes, parsnips, hard squash, and even some cabbage. If doing so, I would add some herbs or other flavorings to the water, or cook them in vegetable stock.I've linked to some recipes below for making pot-au-feu, the classic meat-based French boiled dinner that kig ha farz is traditionally served with. And I've linked to some places where you can get Japanese soba flour (mixed with wheat), as well, which you may want to track down. To approximate the same thing, you could use 80% whole-grain buckwheat flour mixed with 20% wheat flour.I've also linked to some places after the recipe where you can get farz sacks in France, and elsewhere. You could also place the mixture in the center of a clean, damp piece of cotton cloth about 2-feet square (60 cm). Gather the corners of the cloth and secure them tightly with kitchen string, leaving room for the mixture to expand by one-third. 
2 large eggs 
1/2 cup (125ml) whole milk 
4 tablespoons (60g) melted butter, salted or unsalted 
1 3/4 cups (250g) buckwheat flour (see headnote) 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt 
1. Mix together the eggs, milk, and butter in a large bowl. 
2. Gradually add the flour, sugar and salt, stirring until smooth. 
3. Scrape the mixture into a farz bag, a sack made of unbleached muslin specifically for this purpose. Tie it closed, leaving room for it to expand by about one-third. 
4. Simmer the farz in simmering broth, turning it a few times while cooking, for about 2 hours. 
5. Drain the sack in the colander very well for 15 minutes. Then take the sack and roll it on the countertop, pressing it firmly back-and-forth, until you can feel the dumpling inside being broken into irregular bits. Continue rolling it on the counter until it's well-crumbled. If it resists being broken up by rolling the sack, open the sack and break the pieces of buckwheat up with your fingers. 
Serving: Serve the kig ha farz with boiled meats, vegetables, or simply a pat of salted butter. 

Storage: The kig ha farz can be made up to two days in advance and refrigerated. It can be rewarmed in a microwave oven. 

Related Links 
Where I discovered Kig ha farz in Brittany 

Kig ha farz sacs (Tempête de l’ouest, in France) 
 
Kig ha farz sacs (Coop Breizh, in France) 

Kig ha farz sacs (Idees-Neuves, in France) 

Kig ha farz sacks, and more here, available globally, on Etsy 

Chez Michel and L’auberge du Roi Gradlon in Paris often feature Kig ha farz on their menus, although I’ve not had it at either place. 

Breton Pot-au-feu (Saveur) 

How to Make Pot-au-feu (Fine Cooking) 

Sobakoh (Buckwheat flour mix for making soba) (Anson Mills) 

Breton Buckwheat Dumplings, a gluten-free, regional French specialty that you can make in your own kitchen! 
Pin 
225 
Share 
243 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 468 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Baked Rice Pudding (Riz au lait) with plum compote 

Buckwheat Chocolate Chip Cookies 

Wine Harvester’s Chicken 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: bacon Brittany buckwheat carrots farine de sarrasin Finistere gluten free kig ha farz lard marrow recipe vegetables 



START RECIPE

Quiche with greens, bacon and feta 
40 comments - 10.09.2017 
Save 

While visiting friends in the countryside toward the end of the summer (…is it over already?), I met a woman who grew the most lovely little lettuces, which she sold at the local market. Which was basically a table with several bets of her stunning greens sitting on it. If you haven’t had eaten lettuce just a few minutes (or even hours) out of the ground, you don’t know what you’re missing. 

I, myself, had forgotten about how good fresh lettuce and greens are, until I reached into the pile we bought and tasted the spiciest, most peppery arugula I’ve had in years. She also had mustard greens, which aren’t as celebrated in France as other types of lettuce, perhaps due to their forceful flavor. (Although Dijon mustard is wildly popular, so not sure why the greens aren’t.) But I filled an especially big bag with as many of the mustard greens as I thought I could use, and brought them back to our friend’s kitchen. 

Save 

Greens that are popular in Paris are spinach and Swiss chard, which you can find at most markets, as well as – curiously – bok choy, which I find too neutral for my tastes, in spite of my love of Asian greens. (Ever since Romain tasted pea shoots in the U.S., he’s been harping on me to find them in Paris.) 

Beets are popular in Paris and a majority of the time they’re sold already cooked. I’m told this dates back to when energy was rationed during wartime and farmers were given an extra allotment of gas so they could cook them. But the greens? They seem to have been forgotten… 

Save 

With renewed interest in légumes oubliés (forgotten vegetables), however, raw beets seem to be making a comeback of sorts. But no one is dumpster diving at the markets, fishing out the beet greens that are hacked off before the round beets are handed over to customers in a bag…except for a friend of mine, who couldn’t stand to see the leaves go to waste, and I often run into her at the market, hauling a caddy jam-packed with beet greens home with her. Other than my frugal friend, I don’t see anyone else scrambling to take home beet greens with them. But when I find organic beets, I keep the leaves and sauté them up. 

Save 

While I was deciding what to make with the overload of greens that I’d gotten, in my friend’s kitchen, Romain took charge of the dessert. He’d just discovered pâte sucrée and was on a tart-making bender, and I let him have his way, while I took over the savory side of things. 

Save 

Since I was on vacation, I didn’t take pictures or write down what I did, much to the dismay of some commenters on Instagram. But when I got home, I rustled up some beet greens to use in place of the mustard greens and made it again. It was just as good; the sturdy beet greens didn’t have the tang of mustard, but were full-flavored and made a nice counterpoint to the salty, tangy feta and bits of bacon, along with a generous handful of herbs. 

One piece of bakeware that you’ll find in every French kitchen are tart molds like these: 

Save 

I had an uneasy relationship with them, until I learned how handy they are. You don’t have to worry about drips and spills, due to the high sides, and they’re easy to transport. They’re also really inexpensive; you can pick one up at houseware stands at most outdoor markets for a few euros, or at your local Paris pas cher store, the discount stores that are scattered around Paris, that sell everything from clothespins, to Duralex glasses and casseroles. (If you walk up the rue de Belleville, you’ll pass about a dozen of them.) 

If you don’t have one, I’ve given some guidelines for using other types of molds in the headnote before the recipe. You can swap out fresh or aged goat cheese for the feta, and if you want to use another herb, such as fresh dill, basil, thyme, tarragon, or whatever strikes your fancy in place of the chives, go for it. 

Save 

Quiche with greens, bacon and feta 
6 to 8  servings 
The tart mold that's commonly used in France (shown in the post) is 27cm across, with sides that are 3cm high, approximately 10 by 1 1/4. You can get similar size quiche dishes online, or use a 10-inch (27cm) pie dish or pan, but like most French cooks, I wouldn't fret. Anything close in size should work fine.The amount of custard I call for was just right for using a tart mold with lower sides, but if you have one with higher sides, like the French kind shown in the post, you can bump the ingredients up to 1 1/2 cups (375ml) of milk and 6 eggs.I've made this recipe with mustard as well as with beet greens. See notes at the end of the recipe for tips on using other types of greens, and other variations. Whatever type of greens that you use, be sure to wash them carefully, in several changes of water if necessary, to remove any grit. The mustard greens I used the first time had tender stems so I chopped and cooked them together, but if the stems of your greens are thick (such as if you are using beet greens or kale), you probably want to separate the leaves and stems, chop them separately, and add the chopped stems to the pan a few minutes before the leaves, as they'll need to be cooked longer. 
For the tart dough 
1 1/4 cups (175g) flour 
1/2 teaspoon sugar 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
6 tablespoons (3oz/85g) unsalted butter, cubed and chilled 
5 tablespoons (75ml) ice water 
For the tart filling 
olive oil 
1 cup (100g) diced bacon, preferably thick-cut 
2 shallots, or one small onion, minced 
kosher or sea salt 
freshly ground black pepper 
1 bunch beet or mustard greens, chopped, about 8 ounces (230g) 
1 1/4 cup (310ml) whole milk 
5 large eggs, at room temperature 
1 1/2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 
1/4 teaspoon kosher or sea salt 
1/4 cup (10g) minced fresh chives 
3 tablespoons chopped fresh basil  
generous pinch red pepper or paprika 
4 ounces (100g) feta cheese 
grated Parmesan cheese 
1. To make the tart dough, mix together the flour, sugar, and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (Or in a large bowl, if making it by hand, and use a pastry blender to cut in the butter.) Add the butter and mix on medium speed until the pieces of butter are the size of peas. Add the ice water and mix until the dough comes together. Shape the dough into a disk with your hands, wrap in plastic, and chill for at least 30 minutes. (The dough can be made up to 3 days in advance.) 
2. Remove the dough from the refrigerator. Roll the dough on a lightly floured surface until it's a 13-inch (33cm) circle. Brush off excess flour and transfer the dough to a 10-inch (27cm) tart mold. Fit the dough in the tart mold, trim the overhang of the dough around edges of the rim, and chill the dough until ready to use. 
3. To make the filling, heat a little olive oil in a skillet and add the bacon. Cook the bacon, stirring frequently, until it's cooked through, but not crisp. Transfer the bacon to a plate lined with a paper towel and set aside. 
4. Wipe the skillet of excess oil and add the chopped stems of the greens, if they were tough and you separated them from the leaves. (See headnote.) Season with salt and pepper and cook until the stems are tender, adding additional olive oil if necessary. Add the shallots and cook for another minute, then add the greens. Cook the greens, stirring frequently, until cooked through. If they are particularly sturdy greens, cover the pan and let them cook, covered, for a few minutes, until softened. Remove from heat 
5. To make the custard, in a medium bowl, beat together the milk, eggs, mustard, salt, chives, basil, and a pinch of paprika or red pepper. 
6. Preheat the oven to 350ºF (180ºC). 
7. Put the bacon pieces in the bottom of the unbaked tart shell. Add the cooked greens and crumble the feta in big chunks over the greens. Pour the custard over the greens and move them around a bit with a spoon so they're evenly distributed. Sprinkle Parmesan over the top. Bake until the filling is just set, 20-25 minutes if using a shallow tart pan, 25 to 30 minutes if using a deeper tart mold. Let cool for a few minutes before slicing and serving. 
Notes: I made this with mustard greens as well as turnip greens, which took longer to cook than the mustard greens. You can use either of those or another favorite green, such as kale or Swiss chard. Spinach is another possibility although since it's very damp, you may need to wring it out well before using it in the tart. 

If you don't eat bacon, smoked salmon (or even sauteed mushrooms or peas, for a vegetarian version) can be substituted. I've also swapped out goat cheese for the feta, and fresh dill for the basil. 

Some might  about pre-baking the tart shell, before adding the filling. In my experience, I've not seen a French home cook do that. These kinds of tarts are meant to be everyday fare; often people buy the pre-made pastry at the grocery store, unroll it, and fill it for a relatively quick dinner. But if you want to prebake the crust, you can. Simply line the tart shell with foil, fill with beans or pie weights, and bake the crust until golden brown across the bottom. delimJUN

Save 

A French quiche recipe with greens, bacon and feta, bursting with flavor! 
Pin 
715 
Share 
111 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 826 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

How to Make French Vinaigrette 

Celery Root Remoulade (Celeri Remoulade) 

French Tomato Tart 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: bacon cheese Dijon mustard dough feta kale lardons mustard greens quiche recipe smoked Swiss Chard tarte delimJUN



START RECIPE

Balsamic Glazed Roast Pork 
69 comments - 09.23.2017  

It’s been a goofy month. I don’t know if the word “goofy” exists or translates into French, but c’est comme ça, as they say, or “that’s how it is.” It seems like everything got discombobulated; even my vacation plans were thwarted by a server outage and a nasty jellyfish sting, whose only upside was that it was on my thigh – near, but not on, my génitaux. (I’ll spare you the details, but you can look that one up if you want.) 

My iPhone also mysteriously died one night, which I discovered the next morning and I couldn’t get an appointment at the Apple store for a week. When I went in to the store in Paris, they told me the wait to speak to someone was three hours. (!) And when I went to put up a new recipe on the blog, I realized that I didn’t write down the baking time. Zut. 

Fortunately I’m not a total nitwit, and had this recipe waiting in the wings. I had made it because I wanted to feature balsamic vinegar, which I have to admit, isn’t one of my favorite ingredients to add to a salad. The sweetness, to my taste, doesn’t enhance a salad, although it’s not bad with bitter greens like radicchio. Still, I’m more of a red wine vinegar or sherry vinegar kinda guy and prefer a bit of sharpness in my salads. But I found a bottle of balsamic vinegar lingering in the back of my cabinet and wanted to use it up. 

In addition to doing my best not to let anything go to waste around here, another thing I’m fanatical about is collecting condiments. I think half of my refrigerator is filled with them, everything from a few types of mustard, harissa (North African hot sauce), chipotle sauce, Sambal Oelek (which I’m not sure how it got in there since I don’t remember ever using it), Char Siu sauce, jars of tahini that I bought in Lebanon, and a miscellaneous things that I forgot to label and have no idea what’s in them, and will probably remain in there until the day I move, and either use ’em…or toss ’em. 

I’m also really into honey and have a cabinet full of jars, ranging from bitter chestnut honey to a lovely Meyer lemon honey given to me by my pal Casey, at Bushwick Kitchen. Needless to say, I also have a sterling collection of zip-top bags for transporting everything in. 

The oven-roasted pork loin is a terrific way to use balsamic vinegar, which reduces to a lovely syrup, which you bathe the pork in while it’s cooking. It’s also got plenty of fresh ginger to give it some zing, along with a soupçon of honey, soy sauce, and hot sauce, to balance out the flavors. 

So I’ve got a few things to do before the next blog post shows up, including trying to figure out if my aging eyes will appreciate one of those oversized iPhone Plus phones, and if so, will I need to start toting around a man purse to carry it around in? And helping my pharmacist decipher my doctor’s handwriting so he can fill my prescriptions for the antidote to that oddly shaped red swipe across my thigh, courtesy of a Mediterranean meduse. While I wait, here’s a recipe for richly glazed roast pork, that anyone should be able to understand. 

Balsamic Glazed Roast Pork 
6 servings 
I used a boneless pork loin roast, called a roti de porc in French. It's a fairly lean cut, wider than a slender pork tenderloin (called filet mignon, in French). You can use this marinade for pork tenderloin, but you'll need to reduce the baking time. The USDA recommends cooking pork until the temperature in the center is 145ºF (62ºC), which you can determine with an instant-read thermometer. Be sure to let the pork loin rest before slicing into it. 
2/3 cup (160ml) balsamic vinegar 
1/4 cup (60ml) honey 
3 tablespoons (45ml) olive oil 
3 tablespoons (45ml) soy sauce 
2 inch (5cm) piece fresh ginger, peeled and minced 
4 to 5 cloves garlic, peeled and minced 
2 teaspoons hot sauce 
freshly ground black pepper 
1 tablespoon fish sauce (optional) 
2 to 2 1/2 pounds (1-1,25kg) boneless pork loin roast 
1. In a zip-top freezer bag, or a bowl, mix the balsamic vinegar, honey, olive oil, soy sauce, ginger, garlic, hot sauce, a few generous turns of black pepper, and fish sauce, if using. Add the pork. If using a freezer bag, press out excess air and seal. Refrigerate the pork loin for 24 hours, turning it a few times in the marinade during that time. 
2. To roast the pork, preheat the oven to 375ºF (190ºC). 
3. Place the pork roast in a shallow baking dish. Pour enough water (or leftover white wine, if you have any) into the bottom of the baking dish, so it's about 1/4-inch (1cm) deep. 
4. While the pork roasts, liberally baste the pork loin with the marinade every 10 to 15 minutes, and spooning liquid that's pooling in the bottom of the baking dish over it as well. Be very generous with the marinade, as you go.Note: If the liquid on the bottom of the pan threatens to dry up, add more water (or wine) to the pan. (Do not add water to a dry baking dish if the dish is made of glass or ceramic, as it can crack.) 
5. Roast the pork for 50 minutes to 1 hour. (You can check it using an instant-read thermometer, as indicated by the headnote, if you wish.) Remove the pork the oven, let rest 10 minutes, covered with foil, basting it with sauce a few times as it's resting, before slicing. 

This Balsamic Glazed Pork Loin has a spicy hot-sweet sauce, with the zing of fresh ginger! 
Pin 
1K 
Share 
676 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 2K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Pith Helmet 

How to Make French Vinaigrette 

French Apple Cake 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: Balsamic vinegar Bee's Knees fish sauce fresh ginger garlic ginger harissa honey hot sauce iPhone iPhone plus jellyfish Meat pork recipe roast pork soy sauce sting 



START RECIPE

Provencal Chicken with Pastis 
59 comments - 08.28.2017 
Save 

In France, you’re either a juilettiste or aoûtien, meaning you take your annual summer vacation in July or August, although many get more than four weeks off (and some get less), so there’s room for a few crossovers as well. I don’t know what the word for someone who takes their summer vacation during both months is…chanceux? (lucky?) – or if there is a word for those of us who go on break in September is, but that’s where I fall. 

However, it’s impossible if you live in France not to get swept up in the “I gotta get out of town” feeling, as places shutter up and Parisians race toward train stations and airports, with the sounds of luggage being wheeled over the uneven sidewalks, or families packing up their kids, and cars, and hitting the autoroute. 

While others think the French vacation is extremely generous, it’s a right the French fought for in 1936. Before that, most working-class people had never had time off, although now it’s something that’s taken for granted in France. So if you want the same thing, follow their example and hit the streets where you live. 

Save 

Our trip was, for me, a working vacation, because we Americans are wired differently. (Although I’m investigating how to change mine.) In the meantime, I found myself wanting to share a story and pictures of a favorite antique shop, so pulled out my laptop, and got carried away, sharing lots of photos, I think around fifty, and a story. Then we went to a local outdoor market that I just couldn’t not share with you either. 

Regardless, after patting myself on the back, I started to fade into the slower way of life in the French countryside, right about the time my internet connection began to fade, which happens that farther you get from major cities in France. That’s why you’ll see Parisians out in the countryside, standing in the middle of town squares or open fields, pulling on cigarettes, desperate for a network connection. At least that was us, minus the cigarettes. 

On another note, I was on a fairly secluded beach that was sublime – not crowded…and not looking for an internet connection, but admiring the sparkling clear skies and swimming in the gentle waves that lapped the water forward, as the dramatic tide on Brittany came in. But as the water moved toward where I laid my towel to catch some sun, so did the smokers, who moved their blankets and towels closer and closer to me, until I was completely surrounded 
: -/ 

Save 

As we moved farther from cities, my internet connection became even more spotty – much to the chagrin of people trying to reach me, who didn’t understand that in France, in August, closed for business means closed for business. But I was glad I brought along my camera, for un petit travail, when my friend Hélène said she was going to make poulet au pastis for dinner. 

Hélène and her husband live out in the country and grow most of their own vegetables. It’s easy to forget what a tomato right off the vine taste like, or how much better green beans that were just picked a few minutes ago are, compared to their counterparts that have been shipped from elsewhere. 

Right before hitting the kitchen, Hélène heads out to the garden to gather vegetables for whatever she’s going to make for that meal. (She also said she didn’t like thinking too far in advance what she was going to make for a meal because it was too stressful, which I think is good advice.) So I stopped pursuing an internet connection and joined her, searching for beans, tomatoes, herbs, and whatever else was ready to be picked, and cooked. 

Save 

When Romain first met Hélène and her husband, he stayed with them and dined at their table for a few weeks. Midway through his stay, he called me to tell me how great he felt eating so much healthy food, especially all the vegetables. (And I like to think we eat pretty healthy at home.) But our city vegetables are no match for those that are just-picked. 

I love vegetables, but after a few days, when we went to the market, I spotted the one last poulet fermier on display and ed if she felt like cooking it. 

Save 

In addition to extended vacations, great outdoor markets, and gorgeous countrysides in France, butchers will cut up poultry for you. It’s part of the service, and while I don’t mind cutting up my own, they do it so much better. 

Save 

Save 

Once it’s done, they wrap all the pieces up in crisp paper, with the name of their butcher shop on it, then hand the chicken over. All you have to do is take it home and cook it. 

French farm chickens are less-plump than their supermarket counterparts, although you can get a poulet fermier at most French supermarkets. They tend to taste more “meaty,” and give off some natural gelatin, which thickens sauces nicely. To others, the chickens may look boney and sparse (I’ve seen American visitors mock the gangly French dindes when they’re invited to a Thanksgiving dinner in Paris, but the free-range turkeys are much, much tastier than their plumped-up counterparts), and I’m happy to choose the perhaps less-photogenic farm chickens, when I can. 

French cooks don’t have cans of chicken stock at their disposal, so either they use water, or resort to “the cube,” which I’m not a fan of. I usually either make my own, or use water. (Although this stuff will do in a pinch, which I’ve been known to pack in my suitcase on trips back from the States.) 

Once home, Hélène got to work on the tomatoes and potatoes, with Romain pitching in to help. 

I’ve cooked for, and with, French people who like to peel tomatoes, believing the skins to be undigestible. I’ve had guests carefully, and discreetly, dissect tomato slices in salads I’ve made, peeling off and moving aside the offending skins. Helene doesn’t do that, nor does she trim the pointy ends of green beans, which French people always clip off. As a gardener, she wants to use as much of the plants as possible. (However, she did peel the organic potatoes, which we picked up at the market. Go figure.) 

When I told her that I wanted to share the recipe, and we’d need to measure ingredients, she froze. She wasn’t used to doing that, but was a good sport and out came the balance (scale), and into the pot went the tomatoes, potatoes, and other ingredients, after I weighed everything and converted them pounds and cups. 

When Hélène suggested adding just a suggestion of garlic, I said it was fine to ramp it up for les américains, who like a lot of ail, and she added a few extra cloves to the pot. 

While we’re on the subject of cultural differences (or at least I am…), when we were at the market, we talked about portion size. When I arrived in France and made my first dinner for guests, I figured the usual one half-chicken per person, as we ate in the States. I was surprised when I had so much food leftover after buying two chickens to serve at a dinner for four. 

This Provençal Chicken with Pastis turned into a great one-pot meal. One last generalization is that the French generally don’t overdo seasonings, especially when it comes to spices: Herbs are used more frequently than spices. So I gave some ideas in the headnote to the recipe if you want to  the recipe a bit, with the addition of olives or fennel seeds, or even replace some of the parsley with tarragon. 

Provencal Chicken with Pastis 
4 servings 
Helene doesn't cook fancy or time-consuming food, and added potatoes to her stew, along with water to help them cook. When I make it at home, I'm may serve it with wide noodles, so will add less water, enough just to cover the chicken – perhaps 2 cups (500ml). The French tend to like lots of sauce, especially if there is good bread handy, so feel free to add 1 quart (1l) of water if you're using the potatoes.When I got home (and had an internet connection), I did notice some French recipes for Poulet au pastis call for the addition of things like star anise, fennel (fresh or fennel seeds), black olives, saffron, thyme, rosemary, or summer savory. The recipe is very flexible so you can use this recipe as a base, and add any other seasonings in step 4. Personally, I'm going to try swapping out fresh tarragon for some of the parsley and add fennel seeds next time I make it.If you don't have pastis, another anise-flavor liqueur, such as ouzo, arak, absinthe, or anisette, will do. You may need to adjust the quantities, depending on the strength of the liqueur or spirit that you substitute. 
1 whole chicken, cut into 8 pieces; two legs, two thighs, and two breasts, cut in half crosswise (rather than lengthwise), with wings attached 
kosher or sea salt 
freshly ground black pepper 
extra-virgin olive oil 
2/3 cup (160ml) pastis 
1 3/4 pounds (800g) fresh tomatoes, (about 3 large or 4 medium) 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
2 pounds (1kg) small potatoes, peeled or unpeeled 
3/4 cup (45g) coarsely chopped flat leaf parsley 
1 teaspoon raw sugar (optional) 
1. Rub chicken all over the salt and pepper. If possible, let sit overnight in the refrigerator, although it can be prepared right away. 
2. In a Dutch oven or similar vessel, add enough olive oil so it covers the bottom of the pan. Over medium-high heat, when the oil is hot, brown the chicken pieces on all sides, turning them only when one side is brown. (Constant turning won't encourage browning as much as letting them stay in one place until browned.) If your pot isn't large enough, fry them in two batches and remove the first chicken pieces to a bowl while you brown the second. You may need to add additional olive oil to the pot while browning or in between batches. 
3. Once the chicken is browned, wipe excess oil from the pot. Deglaze pan with about a third of the pastis, scraping the bottom of the pot with a flat-edged spatula to incorporate any dark bits. 
4. Add half of the tomatoes to the pot, then the chicken, and any juices that may have collected in the bowl, the garlic, then the rest of the tomatoes. Pour in the rest of the pastis, and bring to a boil. Add 1 quart (1l) water. (See headnote about how much water to add if not using potatoes.) 
5. Reduce the heat to a gentle simmer, cover, and cook for 15 minutes. While the chicken is cooking, slice the potatoes into pieces 1/3-inch (1cm) thick. 
6. Stir everything in the pot gently to mix everything together, then add the potatoes, half the parsley, and the sugar, sprinkling a bit of salt over the potatoes. 
7. Continue to cook, uncovered, basting the potatoes with the liquid in the pot while everything is cooking, until the potatoes are tender and the chicken is cooked through, about 20 to 30 minute, depending on the variety of potatoes and the chicken. 
8. Taste the sauce, and add sugar (if desired) and more salt if it needs it. If you'd like, you could give the sauce a small squeeze of lemon, to add a nice note of acidity to the sauce. 
Serving: Serve the chicken warm with potatoes and some of the sauce. If you decide not to cook potatoes with the chicken, you can serve this with pasta, rice, or a favorite grain. 

Related Posts and Recipes 

Chicken in Red Wine Sauce 

Wine Harvester Chicken 

Chicken with Caramelized Shallots 

The Grand Vacations: July and August in France (The Curious Rambler) 

Take a Break: France’s Love Affair with Vacations (France24, video) 

54 Non-Smoking Beaches in France (Le Monde du Tabac) 

A one-pot French chicken dish that captures the flavors of Provence, with fresh tomatoes, potatoes, and a generous amount of fresh herbs! 
Pin 
923 
Share 
561 
Tweet 
+1 
4 
SHARES 1K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Elderberry Syrup Recipe 

How to Make French Vinaigrette 

Grilled Deviled Chicken 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: anise chicken farm French Cuisine garlic liqueur olive oil parsley pastis potato potatoes Provencal Provence recipe salt tomato tomatoes 




START RECIPE

Vietnamese Caramel Chicken 
71 comments - 07.26.2017 
Save 

The first time I had chicken cooked caramel sauce was at The Slanted Door in San Francisco. “Caramel? With chicken?” I thought. But once I tasted it, I didn’t need to wonder why it became their signature dish. 

Back then, The Slanted Door was a small restaurant in the Mission, on a street that was notable for Latin markets, edgy bars, and burritos. Things have changed and last time I went with Romain, I took him into a hipster shop that had “pine water,” that was something like $80 a bottle. When the bearded clerk wearing a soy-based dyed muslin apron with leather straps and vintage buckles kindly ed how we were finding everything, Romain replied in broken English, “Very expensive.” 

Save 

The Slanted Door was sort of a breakthrough place in San Francisco, and it thrived in that neighborhood, until the chef wanted to expand, which raised the ire of some of the neighbors. So he moved to the Ferry Plaza building, to spiffier digs, adjacent to the splendid outdoor market. I ate there about a year ago and the famous Clay Pot Caramel Chicken is still on the menu, and still a favorite. 

Save 

Save 

At The Slanted Door, the dish is cooked in a clay pot. I have a gazillion pots and pans, seemingly for everything, except a clay pot. And I’m not getting one, because I have nowhere to put it. (I’m still trying to find a place for the slow cooker that everyone said that I just had to have…which is still unopened.) 

But it doesn’t matter; the chicken in caramel sauce can be made in any vessel, like a large skillet or saucepan, or even a Dutch (or French) oven-type pot. Heck, if you’ve got one (and have opened in the box), you could probably make it in a slow cooker. 

Save 

I love this recipe for a number of reasons. One is that’s it’s very easy and quick to make; you can have dinner on the table in about half an hour. But also, you don’t need to hunt down a laundry list of ingredients to get authentic Vietnamese flavors. The only thing you’ll need to do is track down palm sugar. 

Supermarkets in America often carry coconut sugar, which is close, but not quite the same thing. I haven’t tried it, so can’t say if it’ll work, so I recommend stocking up on palm sugar. It’s inexpensive and lasts forever. I discovered palm sugar on a trip to Thailand, fell in love with it, and brought back enough to last me through the following decade. 

Save 

I made a few modifications to the original recipe but the best tip ever was from Andy Ricker of Pok Pok, who told me, “Melt the palm sugar in a microwave oven!” which works very well; in thirty seconds, you’ve got melted palm sugar. Bingo! That worked great and I made it with the aid of le micro-onde the next time I tried it, and it worked like a charm. 

Save 

Vietnamese Caramel Chicken 
4 servings 
Adapted from The Slanted Door by Charles Phan.I tinkered with the recipe, mostly with the portion size. Although I think they have their place, chicken thighs, rather than boneless chicken breasts, are best to use here. I've tried it with all breast meat and the dish is less-appealing made with white meat. For those who insist, a good compromise would be a mix of dark and white meat.Palm sugar is available in Asian markets and online. It usually comes in disks, although it's sometimes sold in tubs, which is harder to portion out. Indian markets carry jaggery, a cousin to palm sugar (sometimes made from sugar cane, and is a bit more stubborn to melt), could be used, although I recommend tracking down palm sugar. 
For the caramel 
8 ounces (235g) light brown palm sugar, coarsely chopped 
2/3 cup (160ml) fish sauce 
2 Thai chiles, sliced lengthwise 
For the chicken 
1/4 cup (60ml) vegetable oil 
1 1/2 pounds (700g) boneless chicken thighs, cut into bite-sized pieces 
2 inch (5cm) piece fresh ginger, peeled and julienned 
3 medium shallots (about 2 ounces, total, 60g) shallots, peeled and sliced into rings 
fresh cilantro, for garnish 
1. To make the caramel, melt the palm sugar over low heat in a medium-to-large saucepan or skillet, stirring frequently (and breaking it up) to encourage it to melt. It'll take about 10 minutes to liquefy completely. Similarly, you can place the palm sugar in a large glass heatproof measuring cup or bowl and melt the palm sugar in a microwave oven, which will take about 20 to 30 seconds. 
2. When the sugar is melted and bubbling, remove from heat and gradually add the fish sauce into the liquefied palm sugar, while stirring. (If you have a hood fan, you may wish to turn it on before adding the fish sauce.) It may also bubble up a bit, so be careful. Add the chiles and set aside. 
3. To cook the chicken, heat the oil in a medium-to-large sauté or wide braising pan, or regular-sized Dutch oven. Add the ginger and shallots and cook until they start to wilt, about 2 minutes. 
4. Stir in the chicken and the caramel, bring to a boil, then reduce the heat until the sauce is just simmering. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the chicken is cooked through, 10 to 12 minutes. (The original recipe said to cook the chicken for 20 minutes, but mine was done sooner.)
Serving: Serve the chicken with rice. 

Storage: The chicken is best eaten right after it's made. The sauce can be made up to one month ahead, and refrigerated. Rewarm until liquified before using. 

Related Posts and Links 

Charles Phan makes Clay Pot Chicken with Caramel Sauce (Epicurious, Video) 

Palm sugar and Coconut sugar (The Spruce) 

Palm Sugar (Amazon) 

Vietnamese Rice Noodle Salad 

Vietnamese Coffee Popsicles 

This easy stovetop Caramel Chicken recipe is a perfect dinner, quick to make and delicious to eat! A signature dish from The Slanted Door in San Francisco. 
Pin 
956 
Share 
921 
Tweet 
+1 
7 
SHARES 2K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Butterscotch Caramel Blondies 

Kimchi Recipe 

Quince tarte Tatin Recipe 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: Andy Ricker Caramel Charles Phan chicken cilantro fish sauce Mission Pok Pok San Francisco Thai chiles The Slanted Door 



START RECIPE

Green Pea and Radish Tartines 
38 comments - 07.05.2017 
Save 

Once upon a time, there was something called I Hate Peas – French fries with ridges that you baked in the oven, aimed at kids who wouldn’t eat their vegetables. They supposedly had all the nutrients of peas without whatever it is about peas that apparently some kids don’t like. They didn’t last long, and I (or my mom) was fortunate because I always loved vegetables, including peas. 

Save 

More recently, a few well-meaning cookbooks gave parents advice on how to sneak vegetables into other foods, like butternut squash in macaroni and cheese, which, to quote Raymond Sokolov, means that “many kids would never know the joy of crusty, traditional mac and cheese.” 

In addition to being very familiar with the joy of crusty macaroni and cheese, the pleasure of fresh peas us something that I never want to miss either. They’re sweet, crunchy, and bright-tasting, and during their fleeting season, it’s nice to find a way to highlight them, like in these green pea and radish tartines. 

Save 

I love peas – always have, always will. And I’m not alone: When I was scooping up shelling peas at the market, I chatted with another guy doing the same, and we talked about how much work they were to prepare. But fresh peas are definitely worth it, we agreed, before we each of us walked away with a big bag of them. 

Save 

Save 

These tartines put fresh peas front and center. There’s expression, or theory, that says, “The easiest solution is the best.” Which goes along with something I’ve learned from French cuisine: You don’t need to do, or add, a whole bunch of stuff to food – just let good ingredients shine. Both seem to apply here; shuck some peas, don’t do too much to them, and let them speak for themselves. 

And because I’m so open-minded, other things I’ve learned are that the word tartine, comes from the French word, tartiner, to spread. I’ve also learned the joys and versatility of fresh goat cheese, that I should never be without French breakfast radishes in my kitchen, fresh herbs are better when used abundantly, and that I should always have a loaf of good bread on hand, for toast and impromptu tartines. 

Save 

This is one of the messiest blog posts I’ve ever done. A while back someone ed me to “Stop using tweezers to place things on plates.” I was a professional cook for a few decades, and now a home cook, but I’ve never used tweezers to place things anywhere. (My tweezers stay in the bathroom, and I’ll spare you a description of what I use them for in there.) 

Save 

The upside to my tweezerless post is that you have permission to make a mess yourself when you make, and eat, these. Peas will roll, herbs will tumble, oil will drip, toast will char. So just a heads-up that theses aren’t your mother’s tartines, if you mom tried to disguise vegetables, that is. They’re for pea-lovers, like us. 

Save 

Green Pea and Radish Tartines 
2 servings 
You can swap out labneh for the goat cheese. I'd imagine fresh ricotta would work. Because ricotta can be a bit grainy, sometimes it's helpful to beat in a spoonful of cream.If peas aren't in season, fava or edamame beans would fill the bill, or top the tartines, nicely. (To go in a completely other direction, you could top the tartines with sliced tomatoes in place of the peas and radishes, and swap out mayonnaise or aioli for the goat cheese.)Feel free to use any fresh herbs that you like; chives, mint, basil, oregano, tarragon, chervil or thyme, and I think a mix is best. I went heavy on the basil and mint. Be sure to reserve extra herbs and shallots for sprinkling on top. 
6 ounces (170g) fresh goat cheese  
1 1/2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh herbs, see headnote 
1 tablespoon minced shallot 
2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus additional for the peas and toast 
kosher or sea salt 
freshly ground black pepper 
2/3 cup (90g) fresh peas 
2 slices country-style or levain bread 
1 clove garlic, peeled 
3 to 4 radishes, thinly sliced  
additional chopped herbs, shallots and olive oil, for finishing the tartines 
1. In a small bowl, mash together the goat cheese, herbs, shallots, and olive oil. Season with salt and pepper. 
2. Prepare a small bowl of ice water and set aside. Bring a small pot of salted water to a low boil. Drop the peas in the water and cook them for about 45 seconds. (Depending on how big they are, or how fresh, they may take more of less time. I like mine al dente.) Drain the peas and immediately put them in the water to cool. Once cool, drain them again, and toss them in a small bowl with a bit of olive oil and a sprinkle of salt. 
3. Toast the slices of bread by brushing one side of them lightly with olive oil. Grill the bread, oil side down, on an outdoor grill or grill pan until golden brown. Turn the bread and grill until the other side is slightly crisp. Remove the breads from the grill and while they're still warm, but cool enough to handle, rub the oil-brushed sides of the breads vigorously with the raw garlic. 
(If you don't have a grill or grill pan, you can brown the slices of bread on a baking sheet in the oven, using the broiler or high-heat, about 400ºF/200ºC, ing them carefully if you use the broiler.) 
4. Smear the garlic-rubbed side of each piece of bread with the goat cheese mixture. Divide the peas over the two slices of bread and press them in lightly. Garnish with sliced radishes and top with additional fresh herbs, shallots, salt and pepper, and a few drips of olive oil here and there. 
Storage: The herbed goat cheese mixture can be made up to three days in advance and refrigerated. Let come to room temperature before using. 

Save 

Pin 
479 
Share 
531 
Tweet 
+1 
4 
SHARES 1K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Split Pea Soup 

Pickled Radishes 

Wild Garlic (or Ramps) Pasta 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: bread garlic goat cheese green peas Herbs labneh mint olive oil radishes recipe ricotta shallots Tartine toast 



START RECIPE

Cobb Salad 
73 comments - 05.26.2017 
Save 

The first avocado I ever had was at Scandia restaurant in Los Angeles and I hated it. The slippery little green cubes avoided my fork, until finally, I managed to spear one. Once I did, I swallowed it – reluctantly, then avoided the rest of them on my plate. I’m not sure how I came to eventually love avocados, but the city of Los Angeles is a little like that, too; You might not like it at first, but it definitely grows on you. 

Save 

Save 

Half of my family is from there so I got to visit them, and the city, during Christmas vacations when I was a kid. Leaving the East Coast snow behind and stepping out of the plane into the 80º heat, and learning that people had actual swimming pools in their back yard, was a revelation. 

Save 

Those days were pretty much the tail end of the era of fabulous L.A. eateries. At places like Chasen’s, elite regulars like the Reagan’s and Elizabeth Taylor dined on chili and “Hobo steaks.” Don the Beachcomber fueled America’s fascination with Polynesian fare. And although I never ate there (but every time we passed the sign, we giggled at its nickname), at the Cock’n Bull on Sunset Strip, the Moscow Mule was said to be invented. 

Save 

My favorite place, though, was Scandia, are airy space on Sunset Boulevard where the impeccable staff would wheel the salad cart to your table and make your salad on the spot, before being heaped on a chilled plate. Most featured crunchy Iceberg lettuce (before the advent of mesclun and micro greens) but the best was chopped romaine, tossed together with a coddled egg and garlic croutons for their Caesar Salad, which I took to right away. 

Save 

Eventually, the Hansen family sold Scandia in the late 1970s and the new owners couldn’t make a go of it. Like the Brown Derby, where the Cobb Salad was said to be invented, it shuttered and the building was turned into something else. To this day, though, I still associate Los Angeles with generous composed salads. 

Save 

On a recent trip, I didn’t have much success finding a classic Cobb Salad. One was tossed together in the kitchen before it landed on our table, and another was served in a big, deep bowl, the ingredients correctly divided into piles, but not in the traditional rows. 

Save 

For those who miss the heyday of Los Angeles dining, you’ll be as intrigued as I was by L.A.’s Legendary Restaurants by George Geary, a fond look back at the iconic restaurants of Los Angeles, some still standing but many, sadly, gone. Everything from Ma Maison and Trader Vic’s, to the less-upscale Hamburger Hamlet and Clifton’s Cafeteria, reminded me being fortunate enough to have gone to some of those places. (See? Growing older does have its rewards.) 

Save 

Tastes may have changed, but aside from avocados, mine haven’t, and I was craving a classic Cobb Salad. Like a Caesar Salad, sorry, but there are no substitutions on this one. In order to be a Cobb Salad, it has to have bacon, tomatoes, avocados, blue cheese, and chicken. I gave proportions that I used which you can use as a guideline but it’s a salad, not a science project, so you can add a little more of this, and a little less of that. 

For some reason, this kind of dressing was dubbed “French” dressing back then. The recipe makes more than you need, but the dressing keep for a week or so, in case you’re feeling nostalgic for another Cobb a few days later, like I was after I made this one. 

Save 

Cobb Salad 
4  main course-size servings 
Inspired by L.A.'s Legendary Restaurants by George GearyThe idea of a Cobb Salad, like a Caesar Salad, is to have all the ingredients in the right proportions so one doesn't stand out too much from the others once the salad ingredients are all mixed together. If your chicken breasts are large, you may just need one. And the chicken breasts are thick, you might want to slice them in half horizontally once cooked, i.e.; lay them flat on a cutting board and cut them in half, crosswise across the equator, so you've got two flat pieces of chicken from one breast.To cook the chicken, fill a saucepan with enough salted water so it'll cover the cover the chicken. Bring it to a boil, add the chicken breast, cover, remove from heat and let stand for 15 minutes, or until the chicken is cooked through. You can peek inside by piercing it with a knife to check for doneness.To hard-cook eggs, bring a pot of water to a boil. Slide in the room temperature eggs and reduce the heat to a low boil. Cook for 9 minutes, remove the eggs from the water, and drop them into a bowl of ice water, to cool them down.To cook the bacon, put the strips between two paper towels on a microwave-safe plate and cook for six minutes in the microwave, or as instructed by the package. You can also cook them in a skillet, if you'd like. If you don't eat pork, swap out turkey bacon.Some like to use peeled, diced fresh tomatoes. I went with cherry tomatoes since the quality and flavor of them is usually better, except in full-on tomato season. To use fresh tomatoes, you can use a tomato peeler, or cut a small x in the bottom of 3 medium tomatoes. Drop them into a pot of boiling water for about 10 seconds (or until the skin loosens away from the flesh), then transfer them to a bowl of iced water to shock the tomatoes, which encourages the skins to slip off. 
For the Cobb Salad 
1 head romain or iceberg lettuce, or a mix of both, chopped 
1/2 head watercress, chopped 
1 1/2 cups (210g) quartered cherry tomatoes 
2 medium boneless, skinless chicken breasts, cooked and diced (see headnote) 
6 strips bacon, crumbled 
3 hard-cooked eggs, diced 
1 large ripe avocado, diced 
4 ounces (115g) crumbled Roquefort or blue cheese 
2 tablespoons minced chives 
freshly ground black pepper 
For the French dressing 
1/3 cup (80ml) red wine vinegar 
2 tablespoons water 
1 1/2 teaspoons Worchestershire sauce 
2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 small clove of garlic, cut into pieces 
1/2 cup (125ml) extra-virgin olive oil 
1/2 cup (125ml) canola oil (or another neutral-tasting oil) 
For the salad 
1. Spread the chopped lettuce and watercress in the bottom of a wooden salad bowl or a large platter. 
2. Arrange the tomatoes, chicken, bacon, eggs, avocado, blue cheese, in rows across the top of the lettuce. Sprinkle chives over the top and add a few good turns of black pepper. 
For the dressing 
1. In the bowl of a food processor, or blender, combine the vinegar, water, Worchestershire sauce, mustard, lemon juice, pepper, salt and garlic. Process or blend the ingredients. 
2. With the food processor or blender running, add the olive and canola oils in a slow, steady stream, so they make an emulsion. 
3. Toss the salad with approximately 3/4 to 1 cup (180 - 250ml) of the dressing. Leftover dressing can be kept in the refrigerator for up to one week. 
Save 

Related Links 

How to Make French Vinaigrette 

Take My Mother Please – Los Angeles Tours: If you want to see where all the legendary restaurants were (or anything else in LA, my friend Anne will take you around town. 

Fresh Corn, Tomato, Avocado and Basil Salad  

Pin 
645 
Share 
1K 
Tweet 
+1 
6 
SHARES 2K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 
 
Your email here 
you might also like 

Avocado Coconut Ice Cream 

Chopped Vegetable Salad with Lemon-Garlic Dressing 

Turkey Salad with Lemon, Capers, Mustard and Cornichons 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: avocado bacon bleu cheese blue cheese Brown Derby chicken chives Cobb Salad George Geary Iceberg L.A.'s Legendary Restaurants lettuce recipe Romaine roquefort salad salad recipe Scandia watercress 




START RECIPE

Kofta with Yogurt-Tahini Sauce  
34 comments - 04.23.2017 
Save 

There are many types of kofta, and spellings, including (but not limited to), kofta, kafta, and kufta, cooked in various countries and regions around the world. An unverified report on Wikipedia stated that in Turkey alone, there are 291 different kinds of kefta, or kofta. I don’t know how many kinds or varieties are available in the United States, but I know that if something comes from Tartine in San Francisco, you can be sure it’s going to be very good. 

Save 

Started by Elisabeth Prueitt and Chad Robertson, Tartine Bakery & Café become became famous around the world for Chad’s hearty, air pocket-filled, crusty bread, and Elizabeth’s baked goods. Back in the day, that part of San Francisco was mostly known for its proximity to the Mission, where we all went for burritos and Mexican food. 

But the small stretch of 18th Street where Tartine rests on the corner, now has an ice cream shop, a food shop, a couple of restaurants, and probably a few new places since my last visit. 

Save 

Like me, bakers can’t live on bread and pastries alone (although some of us sure try!), and Elisabeth decided to share the recipes she makes for her family and friends at home in Tartine All Day: Modern Recipes for the Home Cook. 

Save 

It’s always hard to describe “American Cuisine” because being a melting pot culture, we don’t have many constraints. It’s not unusual to have an omelet, sushi, tacos, and a hot dog, on the same day (and sometimes, in the same restaurant), all of which originated elsewhere. 

And thank goodness, because it would be boring eating oatmeal and grilled steak every day. Although come to think of it, oatmeal may be from Scotland, and whoever can determine who grilled the first steak has a lot more time on their hands than I do. 

Save 

Tartine All Day celebrates the variety of foods that Elisabeth makes at her home in San Francisco, including coffee cake, whole-grain “risotto,” cheese and corn soufflé, lamb with mint salsa verde, pistachio madeleines, jams bars, cornmeal-ricotta upside-down cake, and the Tartine chocolate-almond cake. And thanks to her book, now we can too. Because Elisabeth has a gluten intolerance, the recipes were created with that in mind, although the rest of us wouldn’t feel like we’re missing anything if we made them. 

Case in point is her kofta recipe. Cracked wheat (bulgur) is often used along with the ground meat, but Elisabeth’s version has quinoa in them, so they’re accessible to others. Who can argue with making food that’s more available to more people? 

Save 

What I like about recipes like this one is that it takes a simple concept – grilled ground meat – but gets spiced and seasoned, turning it into something more exotic and interesting than just a plain ol’ patty. 

And like the best cookbooks aimed at home cooks, Elisabeth gives options for hard-to-find ingredients and skips fussy techniques. For example, if you can’t find the ras el hanout spice mixture, she gives a quick recipe to make your own, or notes that you can just increase the other spices by 1/4 teaspoon. Yes, you can turn that famous Tartine chocolate cake into cupcakes. And if you don’t have tapioca flour for her sticky date pudding with hot toffee sauce, but really, really want to make it, you can swap it out with cornstarch. 

Adding my own variation, for these skewers, if you don’t have quinoa, you could go traditional and use bulgur. I didn’t have any quinoa (or bulgur) on hand and ground a few wheat berries that I had, and used those. Similarly, you have a few different options for preparing the kofta: 

– Make meatballs with the mixture and pan-fry or grill them, especially interesting if you want to serve them as an appetizer for a party. 

– Wrap the meat around the skewers in long cylinders (like a cigar), rather than in flat patties. 

– Omit the skewers and form the meat into patties, and pan-fry or grill them. If shaped into rounds, the kofta mixture would make good burgers, served on a bun. 

Elisabeth recommends adding the meat to skewers in several (two or three) steps, which she says helps the meat stick together. I went rogue and made ovals, which worked – well, mostly. I did have one fall off the skewer when I turned it over, so next time, I’ll heed her advice. 

Kofta with Yogurt-Tahini Sauce 
4 servings 
Adapted from Tartine All Day: Modern Recipes for the Home Cook by Elisabeth PrueittI changed the recipe a bit, grating the onions rather than chopping them. While red pepper flakes probably aren't traditional, I liked the little bit of spiciness they added. If you have it, you could try these with Lebanese spice mixture, baharat in place of the ras el hanout, which would add another kind of spicy aroma.Because Elizabeth is gluten-intolerant, she uses quinoa in her kofta. She cooks 1/4 cup (45g) of rinsed quinoa in 1/2 (125ml) water with a large pinch of salt for 15 minutes in a small saucepan. Remove from the heat and let sit for 15 minutes, covered. To plump bulgur, start with the same amount of bulgur and hot water, bring to a boil, cover, then remove from heat. Drain and gently squeeze out any extra water. But different types of bulgur can vary so check the instructions for the bulgur that you're using for recommendations on how to prepare it.I prefer to use regular, rather than Greek yogurt, for the sauce. Greek yogurt is quite thick and if you do use it, you may need to thin it with water or milk. 
For the kofta 
1 pound (450g) ground lamb 
1/4 cup (60g) cooked bulgur or quinoa, (see headnote) 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1 teaspoon kosher salt or sea salt 
1 teaspoon ras el hanout 
1 teaspoon red pepper flakes (optional) 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
1/4 cup chopped flat-leaf parsley 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint 
1 small onion, peeled 
For the yogurt-tahini sauce 
1/3 cup (80g) tahini 
4 cloves garlic, peeled and minced 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt or sea salt 
1 cup (240g) plain yogurt, preferably not Greek yogurt 
2 1/2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice 
2 tablespoons chopped flat-leaf parsley 
big pinch cayenne pepper or hot red pepper powder 
Koftas 
1. Soak 8 wooden skewers in water for 30 minutes. Put all the ingredients in a medium-sized bowl, except for the onion. 
2. Grate the onion into the bowl with the other ingredients. 
3. Use your hands to gently mix the ingredients together until well-combined, but do not overmix them, which can make the kofta tough. 
4. Divide the ground lamb mixture into 8 portions and using your hands, shape one part into an oval about 4-inches (10cm) long. Press one skewer in the center then use your hands to mold the lamb around the skewer, finishing by pressing it flat. Lay it on a tray or plate, and repeat with the remaining ground lamb and skewers. 
5. The skewers can be cooked over a hot grill, brushed with oil, until cooked through, or in a grill-pan or skillet on the stovetop, turning them over midway during cooking. They'll take about 6 to 8 minutes, total, to cook. 
Yogurt-Tahini Sauce 
1. In a medium-sized bowl, mix together the tahini, garlic and salt. 
2. Stir in the yogurt, lemon juice, parsley and red pepper, until smooth. If the sauce is too thick, thin it with a small amount of water or milk. Add additional salt, lemon juice and pepper, to taste. 
Serving: Serve the kofta warm with the yogurt-tahini sauce. It goes well the flatbread, as part of a meze (appetizer) platter, with a green salad, or alongside tabbouleh. Instead of the Yogurt-Tahini Sauce, you could also serve them with Tzatziki. 

Storage: The uncooked kofta can be kept in the refrigerator for up to two days. The mixture can be frozen for up to two months. The sauce can be made up to five days ahead. 

Related Recipes and Links 

Ras el Hanout recipe (Epicurious) 

Ras el Hanout (Amazon) 

Turkish Hummus with Spiced Lamb 

Man’oushe 

Pickled Turnips 

Pin 
2K 
Share 
641 
Tweet 
+1 
6 
SHARES 2K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Green Pea and Radish Tartines 

Josey Baker’s Adventure Bread 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: black pepper bulgur Chad Robertson cinnamon cookbook Elisabeth Prueitt ground lamb parsley quinoa ras el hanout recipe skewers spices tahini Tartine Tartine All Day yogurt 



START RECIPE
Wine Harvester’s Chicken 
51 comments - 03.17.2017  

The French are big on braising. It’s a technique used to soften tough cuts of meat, which are often the most flavorful ones (and least-expensive), and traditionally, the ones French people liked to eat. But also during tough times, cooks would bring pots of food to their local bakers, who keep their ovens going while they were baking bread, and for a few coins they’d have them slow cook, or braise, their dinner for them. The iconic “P” in Poilâne bread is a nod to a similar tradition of people bringing their unbaked loaves of bread to a communal oven, and people would slash a mark in their loaves, or their initial, so they would know whose bread was whose, once all the loaves were baked. 

But I’m not sure this dish has roots in France. I haven’t seen many references to “harvester’s chicken with grapes” in France. A few searches for poulet vendageur aux raisins turned up some not-very-encouraging results. So it may be something invented by someone who romanticized something that’s less-than-glamorous, namely, grape-picking. But who likes chicken very much and decided to pair it with a big bunch of grapes, like I did. 

I’ve picked grapes a few times and after about 15 minutes in the hot sun of southern France, I was ready to call it a day and pop open a bottle of rosé, and drink it in the shade. I can peel apples for hours, segment oranges until the cows come home, and roll pastry like a champ. But picking grapes is very hard work. 

Even if you’re not a vendangeur, or vendangeuse, or live in a grape-picking region, you can make this during other seasons, as long as there are grapes. Or if you live in part of the world where you have plenty of grapes to choose from at the moment, because the seasons are reversed from the other hemisphere, this recipe is to include you. And we all want to be inclusive, don’t we? 

So while I’m happy to support the people who make wine by drinking—and eating—the fruits of their labors, when shopping for what to eat with some of the many bottles of wine I have tucked around my apartment, at my outdoor market the other day I chanced upon some plump, dark grapes and wanted to indulge myself in a braised chicken dish with morsels of smoked bacon and juicy raisins, as the French would say. And this is the result. (Not shown: Wine alongside.) 

Seedless grapes are rare in France, and most people don’t mind the seeds. (Although they seem to be a little more refined about getting them out of their mouth than I am.) Wherever you are, find a grape variety that tastes good, if you can. In the U.S., Concord or Niagara grapes are very flavorful, or muscat. Of course, since this is a wine harvester’s meal, any grapes used for making wine are appropriate. But you could use Red Globe-style grapes, and count on the bacon-powered braising liquid to give them a boost of flavor. 

I did try this dish with seedless grapes, and vastly preferred the dish made with unseeded ones. Not just because I like to make a fool of myself trying to get grape seeds out of my mouth not-so-discreetly, much to the amusement of my French dining companions, who wonder if I was raised by animals and rescued by my parents when I was twelve. But I found the halved, seeded grapes got lost in the sauce. 

(For the record: Emily Post said, when ed how you should remove food from your mouth, like seeds and fish bones: “With the same utensil that you used to put the food into your mouth.” Which makes sense, although grape seeds are a little tough, unless the tines of your fork are very close together, unlike mine.) 

While we’re being honest, I like this dish the same day it’s made (above), but it’s even better rewarmed after it’s had time to sit in the flavorful sauce. I rewarm it in a shallow gratin-type dish with some of the sauce, for about twenty minutes in a 375ºF/190ºC oven, until it’s heated through and browned on top. Adding enough sauce at the start so the chicken pieces are halfway submerged is the right place to begin when reheating it. A quick flash under the broiler at the end will give the chicken pieces a nicer color. And if you’re anything like me – and I hope for the sake of your friends, you’re not when trying to extract grape seeds from your mouth, without drawing undue attention to yourself – you tend to  things in the oven like a hawk, so do cook/broil the chicken pieces until they’re nicely browned, just the way you like them, with a simmering pool of the wine- and bacon-flavored sauce surrounding everything. 

Wine Harvester's Chicken 
4 servings 
Use the most flavorful grapes you can find, such as muscat, Niagara, or Concord grapes, although it'll be fine made with regular store-bought grapes, too. If don't want to deal with seeds, you can halve the grapes and pluck out the seeds, or use seedless grapes.You can make this with a whole chicken, cut into 6 or 8 pieces, or 4 thighs (leg and thigh sections), cut in half, separating the leg from the thigh, so you have 8 pieces. I found the chicken was even better the second day, when I warmed leftovers in a gratin dish, uncovered in a moderate oven - about 20 minutes or so in a 350ºF/175ºC, then turning on the broiler to give the chicken some color.I like the curious flavor of allspice, but feel free to use another spice or seasoning that you think would compliment the fruity grapes, such as ground or crushed cardamom, cloves, or cinnamon. For those avoiding wine, you could double the amount stock and add a big squeeze of lemon juice. 
1 whole chicken, cut into 6 or 8 pieces, or 4 thighs cut in half (see headnote) 
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt or sea salt 
1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil, plus a tablespoon or more for frying the bacon 
1 cup (150g) diced, thick-cut bacon 
3 shallots, minced, or 1 small onion, minced 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1 1/2 cups (375ml) dry white wine 
1 1/2 cups (375ml) chicken stock 
1/4 cup (60ml) red wine vinegar or cider vinegar 
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 
Two 1-inch (3cm) strips fresh orange zest 
10 branches fresh thyme, (or 2 teaspoons dried thyme) 
10 allspice berries, lightly crushed 
2 cups (315g) stemmed grapes 
1. Season chicken with salt and let sit overnight in the refrigerator. (This step isn't imperative, but does make the meat more succulent.) 
2. Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons of olive oil over medium-high heat in a Dutch oven, large, wide casserole, or roasting pan, that has a lid. 
3. Sear chicken piece so they are brown on both sides, about 5 to 8 minutes per side. Depending on the size of your Dutch oven or casserole, you may need to do them in batches. Remove pieces of chicken to a bowl once they're browned. 
4. Preheat oven to 350ºF/175ºC. 
5. Saute the bacon in the pot. If necessary, add a tablespoon or so of olive oil. Stir the bacon until it's mostly cooked, then add the shallots or onion and garlic, and cook, stirring constantly, until the onions are translucent, about 2 minutes. 
6. Add the wine, stock and vinegar to the pot, and bring to a boil. Turn off the heat and add the black pepper, orange zest, thyme, and allspice. Put the chicken pieces in the pot, skin side down, cover and bake in the oven for 30 minutes. 
7. Remove the pot from the oven. Turn the chicken pieces over, so they're skin side up. Bake, uncovered, adding the grapes to the pot midway during cooking, until the liquid in the pot is thick and reduced to the point where the chicken pieces are about halfway submerged in sauce, and the chicken is browned. (About 30 to 45 minutes.) 
Serving: The chicken would go well with mashed potatoes, or another root vegetable puree, or wide noodles tossed in a little butter. 

Storage: The chicken will keep for up to three days in the refrigerator. 

This deeply flavorful chicken dish slowly braises in the oven, making a delicious sauce, redolent of bacon and juicy grapes! 
Pin 
6K 
Share 
1K 
Tweet 
+1 
3 
SHARES 7K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Josey Baker’s Adventure Bread 

Ballymaloe Irish Brown Bread 

Cold Noodles with Peanut Sauce 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: chicken chicken recipe chicken stock garlic grapes olive oil orange zest poulet shallots white wine Wine Harvester's Chicken 




START RECIPE

Roasted Kale Sprouts 
46 comments - 02.28.2017 
Save 

For the longest time, we didn’t get kale in Paris. As the crinkly greens with the tough stems zoomed in popularity in the U.S., those of us used to, and craving, the rugged flavor of these branchés (plugged-in, or trendy) bunches, were out of luck. I remember chancing across some curly kale in a natural foods store over in the 5th arrondissement, and sweeping the whole shelf of it into a bag, stuffing it all inside, and bringing it to the register. The cashier looked at the bag, then looked at me, and said, “Vous êtes…américain, monsieur?” 

Indeed I was. But now, Paris has firmly gotten on the chou kale bandwagon and although it’s mostly green curly kale you come across, you can sometimes find red kale and even Tuscan (lacinato) kale at outdoor markets, and even in some supermarkets as well as the frozen food chain, Picard. And, being Paris, where trends are often taken to the extreme, there’s even a Miss Kale café. 

Save 

Save 

Much of it is due to Kristen Beddard, who made it her mission to get growers to plant kale, as she chronicled in her engaging and delightful memoir, Bonjour Kale. But I was surprised last week at my local market when I saw these tiny bunches of what looked like mini cabbages, or over-developed sprouts, and brought a bag home. I’d ed the vendor what they were called and he didn’t know. He just shrugged his shoulders and said, “les pousses”, an all-encompassing name for “sprouts.” 

Save 

So I ed the internet (on my Instagram stream), and a few responded that they were Kalettes, and delicious when oven-roasted. Some said that they added a squirt of lemon juice just after roasting and another woman from Australia offered up that they were part of an “Aussi breakfast.” Another called them “snack crack.” 

Save 

Noted food stylist and recipe developer, Susan Spungen, chimed in as well, mentioning to let them get close to crisp when roasted. I was intrigued and rifled through my teetering pile of hard-won vintage French gratin dishes, scored perhaps at some flea market?…grabbing the largest one, and went to work. 

Save 

I drizzled my kale sprouts, as I’m going to call them, with Sicilian olive oil, sprinkled them with flaky sea salt, and added a few good turns of black pepper from my pepper mill. 

The verdict? I loved these! They have the faint flavor of Brussels sprouts but not enough to stink up your kitchen, and the heartiness of kale, without having to chew on them forever. I roasted them just enough so the outer leaves were crunchy, but the sprouts were still tender inside, and I saw why someone said you could eat them for breakfast. I think I could eat them for every meal. 

When I went back to the vendor the following week to get more, I didn’t see anyone else buying them, so I bought an entire kilo (a little over two pounds), for a price that covered a good portion of the rent on his stand that day. But they were worth it. 

Roasted Kale Sprouts 
4-6 servings 
A number of people chimed in, letting me know that these were referred to as kale sprouts, lollypop kale, kale-brussels sprouts, flower sprouts, and petit vert (?????), in Japan. They're best cooked until the outsides are crisp, but tender inside. For those who like kale chips, they could be cooked until completely crisp throughout, although they are messy to eat.I can't say where you can get kale sprouts where you live, and I was surprised to find them in Paris! Trader Joe's in the U.S. sometimes carries them, but you may need to do a little searching at your local greenmarket, farmers' market, or well-stocked grocery store, to find them.Variations include a sprinkling of Parmesan before or after roasting, a couple of cloves of finely chopped garlic, or red pepper flakes, to add a little heat. I've linked to some recipes and ideas after the basic recipe. Feel free to leave other ideas in the comments. 
1 pound (455g) kale sprouts, rinsed and spun dry  
2 1/2 tablespoons olive oil  
sea salt 
freshly ground black pepper 
1. Preheat the oven to 450ºF (230ºC). 
2. Trim any tough ends off the kale sprouts and spread them over a baking sheet, or in a gratin dish (or two), in an even layer. They can be touching as they'll shrink when roasted. 
3. Drizzle the olive oil over the sprouts and season lightly with salt and pepper. Roast the kale sprouts in the oven on the lower third of the oven, turning them over on the baking sheet midway during baking, until they are cooked through and crisp on the outside, about 10 to 12 minutes, depending on the sprouts. (Large ones may take longer.) I like them so they are tender inside, crisp outside. 
4. Remove from oven and serve warm. 
Serving: Although delicious on their own as a side dish, the kale sprouts are great served with a whole grain salad, such as one made with wheat berries, or alongside roasted meats or vegetables. One batch I made was served alongside sautéed fish filets with crumbled crisp bacon over the top. 

Related Recipes 

Kale sprouts with bacon (Kalettes) 

Kale Frittata 

Kale sprouts with Parmesan and garlic (Steamy Kitchen) 

Balsamic roasted kale sprouts (From a Chef’s Kitchen) 

Spicy sautéed kale sprouts (Body Mind Freedom) 

Kale sprouts (Trader Joe’s) 

How to Find Foods Mentioned on the Site 

Pin 
255 
Share 
511 
Tweet 
+1 
5 
SHARES 771 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Kale Chips 

Kale Frittata 

Bear’s Garlic (or Ramps) Pesto 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: brussels sprouts kale kale sprouts Kalettes Kristin Beddard markets olive oil outdoor market Paris pepper recipe salt Susan Spungen The Kale Project 



START RECIPE

Farro with Mushrooms and Bacon 
65 comments - 01.23.2017 
Mushroom Bacon Farro RisottoSave 

A few months ago, I was gifted a very large bag of farro, over five pounds of it. I never thought I could have enough farro, and sure enough, I’m almost at the end of it. 

Farro is popular in Italy, and nowadays, it’s available in the United States and elsewhere. It’s a particular strain of wheat, similar to wheat berries, or épautre, in France, known elsewhere as spelt, emmer, and/or einkorn. But I’ve never found anything I like as much as the real-deal. So I was happy to have so much farro on hand! 

Mushroom Bacon Farro RisottoSave 

I often just cook it up and add diced roast vegetables to it, for a no-nonsense winter salad. But I’m always on the prowl for other uses for it. Rolando, who gave me the farro (and owns Manicaretti, a company that imports it) said, when he handed me the hefty sack of it, “Just cook it up like risotto, David. It’s delicious!” And he was right – it is. 

Mushroom Bacon Farro RisottoSave 

Farrotto starts out somewhat like risotto, but unlike risotto, is pretty forgiving once you get going. With risotto, you need to  the pot and add stock slowly as it cooks. Farro, on the other hand, doesn’t need a lot of tending once you’ve added it to the pot. You just add the stock, and richly flavored mushroom liquid (in the case of this recipe), and in about an hour, you’ll have a big, generous pot of earthy tasting farro, punctuated by bits of chewy bacon and an abundance of earthy mushrooms. Some say you could use barley in place of the farro, or perhaps wheat berries (or emmer, or spelt), although I haven’t tried it with this recipe. (Although now that I’m near the bottom of my bag, I may give barley a try.) 

Mushroom Bacon Farro RisottoSave 
Mushroom Bacon Farro RisottoSave 

Even better, unlike risotto, farro reheats beautifully. (Risotto never seems to be the same to me, if it’s rewarmed.) One of my favorite food columns is Food for Health, by Martha Rose Shulman, in the New York Times. From Garlic Soup to Green Goddess Dressing, and Whole Grain Macaroni & Cheese, I seem to bookmark a lot of her recipes. Last week I actually went through two enormous files of recipes I’ve clipped over the past few decades. A few of hers were in there, as well as an unusual number of recipes for braised short ribs, which admittedly, are on the opposite end of the spectrum. Which may be why I haven’t gotten around to them…yet. 

Mushroom Bacon Farro RisottoSave 

I liked her version of Farro with Mushrooms, but made a number of adjustments. For one thing, I added bacon. I like the background flavor it gave the mushrooms, and provided the nutty farro with a little meaty “backbone,” so to speak. I also dialed up the Parmesan, and tinkered with a couple of other things. I get ed a lot about do-ahead recipes, healthy recipes, and recipes that can be adapted, and this one checks off all of those boxes. 

Mushroom Bacon Farro RisottoSave 

Feel free to swap out artichokes and peas for the mushrooms, when they’re in season. Another option would be to add chopped, sautéed radicchio (or other sturdy greens, like kale or chard) during the last few minutes of cooking. You can omit the bacon, or replace it with chunks of chicken or smoked tofu. And for those who are avoiding wheat, you could try it without the farro, swapping out barley. If you do, I’d be interested in knowing how it came out in the comments. (Unless I get to it first!) 

Farro with Mushrooms and Bacon 
4 generous servings 
This is a great, hearty winter dish. It was inspired by Farro with Mushrooms from Martha Rose Shulman in The New York Times. I made several changes, including adding bacon and adjusting the quantities to my liking.It can be made in advance and rewarmed on the stovetop. Vegetarians can omit the bacon and substitute vegetable stock for the chicken stock. The dried porcini mushroom liquid provides lots of flavor, so try to track some down. (Specialty shops often carry them, although Asian stores usually carry other varieties of dried mushrooms, which can be used.)If you suspect your dried mushrooms may have some grit, after you've soaked them and squeezed them out, you could swish them in a small bowl of water to remove any grit. The liquid could be passed through cheesecloth, to trap any debris.I used thick-cut unsmoked bacon. (Pancetta works well, too.) If using smoked bacon, try to find one that's not too smoky; you don't want to overwhelm the nutty flavor of the farro. Good-quality bacon can be found in natural foods stores, farmers markets, and at butcher shops.Farro can be found in Italian specialty stores and online. It's sometimes available pearled, but I used whole grain farro for this recipe. (Rustichella brand.) If you use pearled, note that it cooks faster so you'll need to keep an eye on it, and adjust the cooking time. Follow the instructions on the package for using it. 
1/2 ounce (15g) dried porcini mushrooms 
1 1/2 cups (355ml) water 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 cup (135g) diced thick-cut bacon or pancetta, 
1 small onion, peeled and diced 
2 cloves garlic, peeled and minced 
2 teaspoons chopped fresh rosemary 
12 ounces (340g) brown mushrooms, trimmed, cleaned and quartered (about 4 cups) 
salt and freshly-ground black pepper 
1 1/4 cups (215g) farro 
3/4 cup (180ml) dry white wine 
2 1/2 cups (590ml) chicken stock, preferably homemade (or low-sodium) 
1 cup (90g) grated Parmesan 
1/2 cup (40g) chopped flat-leaf parsley 
1. Bring 1 1/2 cups of water to a boil in a small saucepan. Remove from heat, add the dried mushrooms, and let stand 15 to 30 minutes. Drain the mushrooms, reserving the liquid, then squeeze the mushrooms to extract as much liquid as possible. Chop the dried mushrooms into small pieces and set aside.(If you get the sense that the mushrooms had grit in them, you can pass the liquid through a very fine-mesh strainer, and swish the mushrooms after they've been soaked in a few changes of water until they're free of dirt, before chopping.) 
2. Heat the olive oil in a soup pot or medium-sized Dutch oven, over moderate heat. Add the diced bacon and cook a few minutes, stirring, until it's cooked through. Add the onions, garlic and rosemary, and cook 2 to 3 more minutes, until the onions are soft and wilted. 
3. Add the mushrooms and season lightly with salt and freshly ground black pepper. (The bacon and stock have salt, so you can add more later, if needed.) Cook the mushrooms until they're soft and cooked through. Stir in the farro and cook for another minute or two, stirring frequently. Add the wine and continue to cook until the wine is almost completely absorbed. 
4. Pour in the chicken stock, the mushroom liquid and stir in the chopped dried mushrooms. Increase the heat until the liquid begins to boil, then reduce the heat to a low simmer and cover. Cook until the farro grains are tender and almost all the liquid is absorbed, about 50 minutes to 1 hour, stirring every so often.
5. Turn off the heat and stir in the Parmesan and parsley. Taste, and season with additional salt and pepper, if desired. 
Serving: Serve warm with more freshly grated Parmesan cheese grated over the top. 

Storage: The farro can be made up to three days ahead, and rewarmed on the stovetop. It'll get thicker as it sits so you may need to add additional stock or water when you rewarm it. 

Related Posts and Recipes  

Roasted Root Vegetable and Wheat Berry Salad 

Farro: An ancient and complicated grain worth figuring out (NPR) 

Artichoke Freekeh Risotto 

Grain Exchange (NYT) 

The Bold Flavors of Dried Mushrooms (Fine Cooking) 

Pin 
992 
Share 
710 
Tweet 
+1 
6 
SHARES 2K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Panettone Bread Pudding 

Roasted Root Vegetable & Wheat Berry Salad 

Bacon and Radicchio Risotto 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: bacon barley chicken stock farro farrotto garlic Manicaretti Martha Rose Shulman onion pancetta Parmesan parsley 



START RECIPE

Nach Waxman’s Beef Brisket 
82 comments - 01.04.2017 
Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

Over the holidays, we were in the U.S. to spend time with my family (and – gulp – to see my editor…), and I made brisket for Romain. He doesn’t like bœuf bourguignon, because it he says it’s always “dry,” so decided for a treat, I’d make brisket, a beef dish that is anything but. 

Because I’m such a champ, I actually made it a few different times, because I had access to brisket meat, which becomes ridiculously tender when cooked over the course of several hours. The French are big eaters of beef, but beef in France is less-marbled, and the breeds are different (which is why some French restaurants and butchers are also offering imported beef, often from America and Ireland), and after the first bite, he declared brisket the best beef dish he’s ever had. All I know is that I now have to make brisket more often, to keep the peace at home. 

Onions for Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 
Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

And I kept my word on that, and during the week between Christmas and New Year’s, I made a brisket one last time for the year. (If you live in France, to find the French equivalent of brisket meat, check out my post on Homemade Corned Beef.) 

I worked on a couple of recipes, one using vinegar, another using beef stock. Doing some searching, I’ve seen brisket recipes that use everything from kimchi to red wine. And I was especially intrigued by this Brisket in Sweet-and-Sour Sauce, which has both wine and Coca-Cola in it. But I know from taste-memory that none of my aunts, who were all-star brisket bakers, ever put wine (or fermented cabbage) in theirs, unless it was Manischewitz. In which case, it was highly likely that they wanted to open the bottle “to take a snort,” as my grandmother would say when she drank her nightly glass – or glasses – of Scotch. 

Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

While having lunch with a friend of mine while in New York, the subject of brisket came up, and she said, “You know what the secret to making the best brisket is? Use the same weight of onions as the weight of the beef…and a lot of fat.” And that made me think of Nach Waxman’s famous brisket recipe, which uses eight onions and zero liquid. 

It was a bit of a chore to chop all those onions up, although it was easier after I went to the market myself, after sending Romain and he came back with petits oignons, which I replaced with ones that size of American baseballs. Once I sliced them up (when he wasn’t looking), the rest was smooth sailing. 

Garlic for Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

Since there’s no water, stock or wine added to this recipe, I wasn’t confidence there would be enough liquid in the pot. But sure enough, when I lifted the lid during cooking, the half-cooked slab of beef was already floating in a bath of sweet onion juices. And when I took a sip to check the seasoning, it tasted like the best French onion soup imaginable. I sliced the beef up, sneaking a few more sips of the onion-rich broth, and put the slices of beef back in the pot to finish. 

Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

Potatoes for Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

In addition to brisket, Romain learned about the wonders of fresh horseradish, which I’ve only seen them once in Paris; my local supermarket had a Festival de Racines display, a cart of root-vegetables, and I noticed a few horseradish roots tucked in amongst the parsnips and rutabagas, and snagged one of the craggy roots. (The cashier had no idea what it was.) 

Creme fraiche for Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

I can’t tell you where to get one nowadays in Paris, unless you have Alsatian friends who might be willing to send you one from Alsace. Otherwise, you can use the jarred stuff, which makes a zippy sauce mixed with crème fraîche, or sour cream, to go along with the brisket. 

Horseradish for Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

Fortunately there’s no shortage of crème fraîche in France, which is sold in supermarkets as sour cream is sold in the States. But I was at my fromagerie and got a tub from them. Theirs is extra, extra-thick, sticky, and so dense that you can barely drag a spoon through it. It’s pretty much heaven in a pot. 

I grated up my raifort root and marinated it in vinegar, careful not to take too close of a sniff. I did that once by accident when I was grating some up in a food processor and the searing heat blasted right up through my sinuses, and permanently singed the back of my eyeballs. As tempting as it is to fully take in that glorious, fiery smell – I don’t recommend it. 

Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

I didn’t want to keep our brisket all to ourselves, so I invited friends for dinner, who are half-American, half-French. The dinner seemed to incorporate the best of both worlds, and good food tends to brings people together, no matter what cultures we’re from. It’s something we all seem to agree on. And in this case, everybody agreed: This recipe makes a great platter of brisket. 

Nach Waxman Brisket recipeSave 

Nach Waxman's Brisket	 
12 to 12 servings 
This is slightly adapted from Nach Waxman's famous brisket recipe. Nach is the owner of Kitchen Arts and Letters, one of the world's great cookbook stores, in New York City. It's said that the first place it appeared was in The Silver Palate New Basics book. (And subsequently in The Brisket Book: A Love Story with Recipes.)This makes quite a bit of brisket. Mine was 6 pounds (2,75kg), which barely fit in the pan (and I used a very large pan), but it shrunk down considerably during cooking. My pot has a capacity of at least 8 quarts (7,5l) but you can also use a roasting pan that has a lid, or one that can be covered tightly with foil. This is one of those recipes that's better the second...or even the third... day. Leftovers freeze well, too.I added a bit of fish sauce, which is undetectable in the finished brisket but adds a savory undernote to the sauce. You can leave it out if you wish. If you live in France, I've given tips on where to find similar cuts of beef at my post: Homemade corned beef.Note that brisket is best if you salt the beef the day before. 
6 pounds (2,75kg) beef brisket 
kosher or sea salt  
2 teaspoons flour 
3 tablespoons olive or vegetable oil 
8 medium onions, peeled and sliced 
freshly-ground black pepper 
3 tablespoons tomato paste 
4 cloves garlic, peeled and thinly sliced 
1 tablespoon fish sauce (optional) 
1 carrot, peeled and diced 
1. Trim excess fat from the brisket, but leave a thin layer of it intact. Season it all over with salt, rubbing it into the meat. Put the brisket in a shallow baking dish, cover, and refrigerate overnight. 
2. Sprinkle the brisket with the flour. Heat the oil in a large, wide pot or roasting pan over medium-high heat on the stovetop and brown the brisket on both sides, which will take about 10 to 15 minutes, total. Transfer the brisket back to the baking dish. 
3. Preheat the oven to 350ºF (180ºC). 
4. Lower the heat to medium and add the sliced onions to the pot, season them with a bit of salt and black pepper, and cook, stirring frequently, until they are soft, wilted, and golden brown. While cooking them, scrape up any stuck on bits of beef from the bottom of the pan, and stir them into the onions. If the pan is too dry and the onions are sticking to the bottom, add a tablespoon or so of water. The onions will take about 10 to 15 minutes to cook. 
5. Add the brisket back to the pot, laying it over the onions, along with any juice that may have pooled in the dish it was resting in. Smear the tomato paste over the brisket, sprinkle with the fish sauce (if using), the garlic slices, and the diced carrots. Cover and cook in the oven for 1 1/2 hours, lifting the lid once or twice during cooking, to spoon any juices over the brisket. 
6. Remove the pot from the oven and reduce the heat of the oven to 325ºF (160C). Set the brisket on a cutting board and slice it in 1/2-inch (1,25) slices against the grain, or thinner if you like, then place the slices back in the pot so that they are snugly overlapping, keeping them in the same order as they were when you sliced them. Cover the pot and bake for another 2 hours, or until tender.You can serve the brisket right away, or let it cool and refrigerate it overnight. (It's actually better served 2-3 days after it's baked.) The beef slices can be rewarmed in the pot along with the sauce. 
Serving: The brisket can be served with roasted or boiled potatoes, mashed potatoes, or another root vegetable puree, with juices from the pot and the long-cooked onions. Roasted or boiled carrots are also a nice accompaniment. 

Storage: The brisket will keep for 4 to 5 days in the refrigerator, or can be frozen for at least two months. 

Horseradish Sauce: To make horseradish sauce, mix 1 cup (65g) of freshly grated (fine) horseradish with 2-3 tablespoons cider vinegar. (Add 1/2 teaspoon of sugar, if you wish.) Let it rest 30 minutes. Mix in 1 cups (240g) crème fraîche or sour cream and a pinch of salt. Taste, and add additional horseradish, vinegar, and salt if you wish. If it's too thick, it can be thinned with milk. The sauce will thicken if refrigerated. You can also make a similar sauce with prepared horseradish, mixing about half the amount of jarred horseradish with crème fraîche or sour cream, to taste. 

Pin 
1K 
Share 
2K 
Tweet 
+1 
12 
SHARES 3K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Homemade Corned Beef 

Les Haricots Tarbais 

Simplest Beef Curry 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: Basics beef beef brisket brisket cream Creme fraiche garlic horseradish Nach Waxman onions paleron potatoes Silver Palate Cookbook tomato paste



START RECIPE

Caponata 
79 comments - 08.30.2016 
Caponata recipeSave 

I used to have a hard time with certain cooked vegetable salads, such as ratatouille, even though people have insisted that I would like their version. Which I’ve always found odd, because if someone told me they didn’t like chocolate (I know – horrors!), I would not try to sell them on a brownie or chocolate cake. Ratatouille always tastes like a lot of stewed vegetable all mixed up, and never seemed to capture the distinctness of each of the ingredients like the caponata I had in Sicily, that changed my mind about cooked vegetable salads. 

Eggplant for Caponata recipeSave 

Caponata is the cornerstone of Sicilian cuisine, according to Fabrizia Lanza, who was born in Sicily and returned to her family’s agricultural estate to teach cooking classes there. I got to visit a few years back and still remember it as one of the best weeks I’ve spent in, well…years. During the week, she made caponata, and served it on a big platter in her courtyard. From the first bite, I was hooked. 

Celery for Caponata recipeSave 

Cooking eggplant for Caponata recipe 

I loved the way the eggplants exploded with flavor, and the other ingredients – salty olives, still-crisp celery, and capers – kept the dish bright and crunchy. It was so good that I bookmarked the recipe in her excellent cookbook, Coming Home to Sicily. The book highlights her life in Sicily, along with her favorite cheesemakers and farmers on the island, including the most incredible fresh ricotta I’ve ever had, and change-your-life tomato paste. 

Then a few seasons passed, and I never got around to making caponata. That changed this week, as did my stewed-vegetable life, when I took the first bite of my homemade caponata and all the flavors of the incorrigible island of Sicily came rushing back to me. Every flavor of Sicily, and summer, were concentrated in each forkful, and I couldn’t stop eating it. 

Cooking eggplant for Caponata recipeEggplant for Caponata recipe 

Here’s the kicker in this recipe. A while back, there was an article about “deal-breakers” in recipes, an ingredient or technique that make someone not want to make a recipe. Mine is deep-frying. Yes, I tackled fried chicken in duck fat, but deep-frying at home isn’t my thing. 

However, there I was, heating oil in my cast iron skillet and frying up the eggplant for this caponata. I got some beautiful small eggplants at the market, and ed them go from being pale, to a burnished golden-brown, and couldn’t resist snacking on the darkest cubes as soon as they were cool enough to eat. 

Tomato sauce for Caponata recipe 

Sicilians aren’t afraid of using copious amounts of olive oil and cooks there use a lot of it in their cooking. I suspect they fry the eggplant in olive oil, too, although in her book, Fabrizia recommends vegetable oil. I used sunflower oil but you can use a good-quality peanut or canola oil for frying. Or go for it and use olive oil. 

A good tip I learned is to cover the surrounding stove area, including the stove and oven knobs, with aluminum foil, to lessen clean up. But in fact, the recipe gave me the chance to give my stovetop a long-overdue cleaning. And frying the eggplant in the oil ended up not being nearly as messy as deep-frying and the clean-up took just minutes. 

One could make fresh tomato sauce but often good-quality tomato sauce that you buy is richer in flavor than fresh, because they’re sometimes produced in regions with better tomatoes than one can buy at their local market. (That’s why canned coconut milk is often better than what you can make at home.) So I picked up a couple of jars of salsa pronta, Italian tomato sauce, and used that. 

Caponata recipe - parsley 

I was recently at a dinner party with some Italians who told me no one in Italy uses jarred sauce, so I wondered who bought all those jars I’ve seen in Italian grocery stores? When I brought up the question online the next day, many said it was tourists, but I doubt the jarred tomato sauce industry in Italy is supported by visitors stocking up on jars of tomato sauce at Italian supermarkets. 

If you’re fortunate to get good tomatoes where you are and want to make your own tomato sauce, I’ve linked to Fabrizia’s salsa pronta recipe at the end of the post. If going the store-bought route, choose a good-quality tomato sauce, one without a lot of extraneous ingredients. 

One addition to caponata that I’ve seen are raisins, which are used in Sicilian savory cooking. If you want to add them, they could be added in step 4, along with the celery and other ingredients. Some also add toasted pine nuts along with the raisins, which are an option, although the good ones have gotten so expensive that they’ve become a luxury. 

Sicilian Caponata recipeSave 

The surprising thing about caponata is that it definitely improves the day after it’s made. And I speak from experience because when I first tasted it, I thought, “This doesn’t quite taste like the caponata I had in Sicily.” Then I put it in the refrigerator to serve the next day. When I took a bite before serving it, it had magically transformed into the most wonderful eggplant salad I could imagine. 

Caponata 
About 6 servings 
Adapted from Coming Home to Sicily by Fabrizia LanzaAs mentioned above in the post, I wouldn’t be surprised if Sicilian cooks fried the eggplant in olive oil because it’s so copious there. So you could replace the vegetable oil with olive oil, although not necessarily a fancy one; save the good stuff for drizzling over salads.Some might  about salting the eggplant, which I don’t usually do because I buy smaller eggplants and never had a problem with bitterness. Some in the food world think that salting eggplant isn’t done anymore because eggplants are no longer bitter.Caponata is meant to be a touch sweet, a tad vinegary. I added more than Fabrizia but since vinegars can vary in strength, you can taste and add more later in the game. The original recipe made quite a bit of caponata and and I reduced the recipe by half. (Some might say you can never have enough caponata, but because of the concentrated flavors, a little goes a long way.) It keeps very well in the refrigerator, so if you wish you can double the recipe. 
3 branches celery (tough outer strings removed if necessary) 
about 1 cup (250ml) Vegetable oil, for frying, or olive oil 
1 pound (450g) eggplant 
salt 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
1 small red onion, peeled and thinly sliced 
1/2 cup (60g) green olives, pitted and very coarsely chopped (about in thirds) 
2 tablespoons (30g) capers, rinsed and squeezed dry 
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (225ml) best-quality tomato sauce 
3 tablespoons (40ml) wine vinegar, red or white 
1/2 tablespoon honey (or sugar) 
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
Chopped flat-leaf parsley or mint, for serving 
1. Remove the leaves from the celery branches and cut the branches into 1/2-inch (1,25cm) thick slices. Bring a medium sized pot of water to a low boil and simmer the celery until crisp-tender, about 5 to 7 minutes. Drain and rinse well in cold water. Set aside. 
2. Trim the stems off eggplant and cut into 1-inch (3cm) pieces. 
3. In a large, heavy-duty skillet (I used cast iron) heat 3/4-inch (2cm) of vegetable or olive oil. Cook the eggplant in batches, not crowding too many into the pan at once, turning them occasionally, until they are browned all over. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on a baking sheet lined with paper towels. Season with salt, then fry the rest of the eggplant in batches, seasoning them with salt as you remove them from the oil. You’ll likely need to add more oil to the pan as you go. (I ended up using a total of 1 cup/250ml.) 
4. In a large skillet or Dutch oven, heat the olive oil. Add the onion and cook, stirring frequently until wilted and starting to turn golden brown, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the parboiled celery, olives, capers, tomato sauce, vinegar, honey, and red pepper flakes. Let come to a low boil then add the eggplant. 
5. Cook the mixture at a simmer, stirring carefully so as not to mash up the eggplant pieces, for 3 to 4 minutes. Taste, and add additional salt if desired, and perhaps another splash of vinegar. Remove from heat and transfer the caponata to a large, shallow serving platter or bowl and cool. 
Serving and storage: Caponata is best served the next day, so the ingredients and flavors have time to meld. Top with chopped flat leaf parsley or fresh mint. It also makes a nice topping for crostini: Pile it atop grilled bread that’s been brushed with olive oil before grilling, or let the bread cool and smear it with fresh ricotta or another spreadable cheese, then top with caponata. Fabrizia serves it with quartered hard-boiled eggs. 

Related Posts and Recipes 

Fabrizia Lanza’s Salsa Pronta 

Eggplant Caviar 

Pine Nut Syndrome 

Ratatouille (Simply Recipes) 

8 Tips on Using and Choosing Olive Oil 

Eggplant Jam 
 
Pin 
1K 
Share 
1K 
Tweet 
+1 
17 
SHARES 3K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Chopped Vegetable Salad with Lemon-Garlic Dressing 

Dandelion Pesto 

Classic Salade Nicoise 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: capers Caponata celery eggplant Fabrizia Lanza honey olive oil parsley recipe Sicilian Sicily sugar tomato tomato sauce vinegar 




START RECIPE

Moroccan Spiced Grilled Chicken Kebabs    
35 comments - 05.24.2016 
Moroccan spiced grilled chicken kebabs Save 

Whew! Last week was a busy one. I was on a deadline for a book, and as always, the last few weeks were a sprint to the finish. My neck still smarts from being glued to my computer, but it was nothing a few post-writing cocktails couldn’t fix. However I barely had time to shop or do much cooking while I had hammering out words. 

I’m not really a fan of take-out food, nor do I like delivered food, which is curiously becoming as popular in Paris as it is elsewhere. It’s just not really my thing. The idea of a meal that is cooked, then packed in a closed foam box for 30+ minutes or so before arriving on my table, isn’t so appealing. (Although I did get a pepperoni pizza delivered in New York when I was in the thick of things, which I’ll admit was pretty tasty.) 

Moroccan spiced grilled chicken kebabs Save 

It felt good to send the book in and get back to doing some cooking again. Especially grilling, which is as easy as take-out, and there are no pots and pans to wash, always a plus – whether you’re on book deadline or not. 

There was a lot of talk recently about the rise of popular websites that promote cooking using pre-made and/or bottled ingredients. Some people don’t have time, others are looking for convenience, and some don’t care. I certainly have fallen into the first two categories myself, although I haven’t found too many convenience products that are as good as what you can make yourself. These skewers are great because they can be prepared in a few minutes using a pre-blended spice mix (which isn’t cheating, but more of a “short cut”), and refrigerated until you’re ready to eat. Then you just fire up the grill (or grill pan), spear the chicken on the skewers, and in ten minutes, you’ve got a tasty, hot, fresh meal. 

Moroccan spiced grilled chicken kebabs - ras el hanoutSave 

Ras el hanout is a Moroccan spice mix that gets its name from being the “top of the market” – a blend of spices that are the best of the spice shop. It can include coriander, allspice, turmeric, cinnamon, cardamom, and ginger, among other spices. Blends like this are nice to have on hand in your pantry because much of the work is already done for you. 

Different cultures have various names for skewered meats, from brochettes to satay. The catch-all word “kebabs” is the term that gets used the most in the United States for skewered meat and vegetables. Because they’re so global, you’re welcome to use whatever word, or kind of sauce, that you want. In this version, the spices are Moroccan, but the grilled morsels of chicken go well with condiments from other countries and cultures, such as harissa, chermoula, eggplant jam, tzatziki, toum or one of my favorites of all time, chunky feta-cucumber salad. Raw onions, tomatoes and shredded lettuce or cabbage also are possibilities for added crunch. 

Flatbreads for Moroccan spiced grilled chicken kebabs Save 

If you want to be ambitious or you want to make it a bigger meal, these skewers are perfect as a centerpiece for a Middle Eastern/North African feast with a selection of salads and dips; I’ve linked to recipes for some my favorites after the recipe. (After rounding up all those recipe links, can you tell how much I like Middle Eastern food?) Or you can use them to make sandwiches, as I did. 

You can do so by brushing them lightly with a bit of olive oil and grilling flatbreads so they’re soft and warm, like I did (I was going to make my own, but was catching up on everything else I neglected over the last few weeks), and ate my hot-off-the-grill chicken wrapped up in it. 

Moroccan spiced grilled chicken kebabs Save 

Moroccan-Spiced Grilled Chicken Kebabs	 
Serves four
While these skewers are prime for making sandwiches, they’re excellent served with seasoned rice and a side salad or sauce, as I did a few days later.For marinating the chicken, I used Greek whole milk yogurt and would advise using that. If that’s unavailable, use whole milk yogurt. Boneless chicken breasts or boneless leg of lamb will work for this recipe in place of the thighs. If using wooden skewers, soaking them in water for 30 minutes prior to threading them helps prevent them from burning, although these cook rather quickly and wasn’t an issue for me.Ras el hanout is sold in shops specializing in North African or Arabic ingredients. It’s available online at Amazon, Kalustyan’s, The Spanish Table, The Spice House, and World Market. You can mix and grind up your own ras el hangout, too. 
6 cloves garlic, peeled 
1 small onion, peeled 
3/4 cup (180g) whole milk plain yogurt, preferably Greek-style 
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
5 teaspoons ras el hanout 
2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon paprika, sweet or smoked 
1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 
2- pounds (900g) boneless, skinless chicken thighs, trimmed of fat, cut into 1 1/4-inch (4cm) pieces 
1. Finely mince the garlic. Grate the onion with the large holes of a grater. (Alternately, you can cut the garlic and onion into smaller pieces and finely chop them together in a mini-chopper.) Put onions and garlic in a large zip-top freezer bag. You may also put them in a medium bowl and marinade the chicken in the bowl. 
2. Mix in the yogurt, lemon juice, ras el hanout, salt, black pepper, paprika, red pepper, and chicken. Before you close the bag, push most of the air out of it, then seal the bag. Massage the chicken pieces so that they are all covered. Refrigerate for at least an hour, or overnight. 
3. To cook, thread the chicken pieces on 4 to 6 skewers. Light the grill until the heat until it’s very hot. Brush the grill with a bit of oil and grill the skewers on one side until they are seared with grill marks, about 4 or 5 minutes, then turn the skewers and grill until the chicken is cooked through. They’ll take about 8-9 minutes, total. If you don’t have a grill, you can make these in a lightly oiled grill pan on the stovetop. 
Serve with pita or flatbread, rice, couscous, bulghur, or another grain. It also goes well with a sauce, such as eggplant jam, tzatziki, or chermoula. Another possibility is the Cucumber and Feta Salad. 

Related Recipes 

Eggplant Caviar 

Baba Ganoush 

Hummus 

Pickled Turnips 

Flatbread (Chewswise) 

Seeded flatbread (101 Cookbooks) 
 
Garlic Herb Flatbread (Minimalist Baker) 

Whole wheat flatbread (Joy the Baker) 

Sprouted Wheat Flatbread (King Arthur) 

Pickled Turnips 

Tarama 

Fried Halloumi Cheese 

White Bean Dip 

Tabboulleh  

Pin 
289 
Share 
10 
Tweet 
+1 
1 
SHARES 300 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Joanne Weir’s Cucumber and Feta Salad Recipe 

Baked Rice Pudding (Riz au lait) with plum compote 

Seeded Multigrain Crackers 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: chicken dinner flatbread grill lemon juice Moroccan Morocco North Africa ras el hanout recipe spice thigh yogurt 





START RECIPE

Chicken Bulgogi 
64 comments - 04.13.2016 
Bulgogi chicken recipeSave 

While people have been tripping over each other lately, letting everyone know how authentic they can be, outraged over a recipe or poem they saw online, one only needs to look to Korean food to see how it’s done. 

Bulgogi chicken recipeSave 

Koreans don’t seem to have the same strictness to guidelines that are bestowed upon other cuisines, which is great because you can cook, add things that you like, and mix together seemingly incongruent ingredients without getting yourself into hot water. I was making kimchi a while back and had some stewed plums I was thinking of adding, which I mentioned on social media. Instead of getting a slew of nasty messages (like I did when I joked about making a low-fat carbonara with smoked tofu and soy cream, and people actually used the F-word), a bunch of Koreans chimed in – “Go for it!” 

While it’s nice to honor and adhere to tradition, as my friend Patricia the Vanilla Queen,noted to me in an email exchange about all the bickering: “People constantly trip over themselves and get in their own way, which is very sad. Having a sense of humor, the ability to play and to not take ourselves so seriously goes a long way toward being happy!” That’s something I am going to print out and put on my wall: It’s my new motto. 

Bulgogi chicken recipeSave 

In many cases, authenticity is about the spirit of the dish, not necessarily following a specific list of ingredients. I was recently speaking at an event and talked about bouillabaisse, a French dish born of poverty, using leftover scraps of fish that went unsold at the markets. The intent was not to use the rarest, most hard-to-get types of seafood, although now restaurants serve the “authentic” version as a luxury item. Not sure which is better – to honor the spirit of the dish, or a rote list of ingredients? 

I think people, like me, are drawn to Korean food because it’s all about the excitement of eating, with bold flavors and ingredients, with seasonings meant to give your palate a jolt. The “street food” movement made the cooking field ever riper for an explosion of Korean foods, because the foods and cooking techniques could be adaptable to other types of food. While I found the combination of kimchi and tacos a less-than-successful pairing (and the kimchi and falafels I had a while back as well), instead of getting my knickers in a knot about them, I just let them go. Whew! I feel better… 

Bulgogi chicken recipeSave 

A recent book about Korean food came out, Koreatown: A Cookbook, which caught my eye. Written by Deuki Hong, a Korean-American chef with a restaurant in New York’s Koreatown, along with a collaborator, Matt Rodbard, self-described as a “white boy jew from Kalamazoo,” who according to some people, has no business writing about foods from other cultures. But on the other hand, did a pretty bang-up job with Korean food this time around. So there. 

(A woman in Paris came up to me at a book signing once and wondered how I could write a book about French cuisine because I wasn’t French. I wanted to say that it doesn’t matter where you were born and just because you were from somewhere, didn’t mean you were a good cook of that cuisine. I’m sure there are bad Chinese cooks in China, just like in the United States, Mexico, France, Korea, Italy, etc… But instead, I just smiled and said, “Thanks for coming!”) 

Anyway, it’s all good and food is about sustenance and enjoyment, which is why I liked this book. It celebrates the spicy, garlicky, fruity, meaty, and funky flavors that make Korean food so appealing. I’m also drawn to the communal style of eating because one can make their own dish by adding whatever is available in the little side dishes known as banchan, which could be as simple as a few pickled cucumbers, to curiosities like acorn jelly and tangles of tiny dried fish. 

Bulgogi chicken recipeSave 

Probably the most well-known Korean dish is bulgogi, served as a mound of thinly sliced or pounded, marinated meat that’s been cooked on a grill or in a skillet. (If cooking Korean food indoors, I recommend a good hood fan!) Dak bulgogi is made with chicken which I sometimes prefer to the beef version. The thicker chicken thighs soak up the soy sauce and garlic-spiked marinade, then are quickly grilled until the marinade caramelizes on the outside, but remains juicy inside. I took a few liberties with this recipe, namely reducing the amount of black pepper and adding hot sauce. But I’m sure most Koreans won’t get upset about that. 

Most of the recipes in Koreatown: A Cookbook are on a single page and have just three or four steps. You may need to make a trip to a Korean or Asian market, or shop online, for staples like rice wine vinegar, gochugaru (Korean red chile flakes), and ginger to make them, but once you have them, you’ll be able to take on many of the other recipes in the book and make Korean dishes at home, some authentic, and some that use those flavors to take dishes in unexpected directions. 

Chicken Bulgogi 
Four servings 
Adapted from Koreatown: A Cookbook by Deuki Hong and Matt RodbardIf cooking the chicken in a skillet, you can cut the chicken into smaller pieces before marinating, but the larger ones work better on a grill since the longer cooking time will give them a nice sear on the outside. People will often put some fruit puree or syrup, like maesil chung (green plum syrup) or add grated or pureed pear in their Korean marinades, or even some pineapple juice, which flavors the marinade and tenderizes the meat. If you want to do that, add about 2 tablespoons juice, or about half a pear’s worth – grated or pureed – to the marinade. Although the recipe in the book didn’t call for it, I added some chile paste to the mix. Gochujang is a traditional Korean chili paste, which I didn’t have, so used Sriracha. Thai chile paste is a lot hotter, so you could add a teaspoon of that instead.Korean grilled meats are usually served with banchan, a selection of little salads and pickles, such as kimchi and other treats. I made the muchim pickles from the book, and had some kimchi on hand.You may be tempted to use boneless, skinless chicken breasts. Because the meat is sliced thin, breasts would dry out: Thighs remain much more juicy and moist after cooking. So I would recommend thighs, although boneless breasts would work if you must. 
1/2 cup (125ml) soy sauce 
optional: 1 to 2 tablespoons Korean chili paste (gochujang) or Sriracha, depending on how hot you like things 
1 in small onion, peeled and grated or pureeda food processor 
2 tablespoons light brown sugar 
1 tablespoon mirin or rice wine* 
4 cloves garlic, peeled and minced or finely grated 
1 1/2 teaspoons sesame oil 
2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger (peeled or unpeeled) 
freshly ground black pepper 
2 teaspoons sesame seeds 
4-5 boneless skinless chicken thighs (1 to 1 1/4 pounds, 450-575g) 
1. Mix the soy sauce, chili paste or hot sauce, onion, brown sugar, mirin or rice wine, garlic, sesame oil, ginger, a few generous turns of black pepper, and sesame seeds in a large zip-top freezer bag. 
2. Lay the thighs on a cutting board, cover with a sheet of plastic wrap, and pound them so they’re about 1/3-inch (1cm) thick with a meat pounder, rolling pin, or another heavy object. (You can also pound them, a few at a time, in a separate freezer bag to make clean-up easier.) Trim off any excess fat. 
3. Put the thighs in the plastic bag with the marinade, press excess air out of the bag, seal it closed, and massage it so the marinade covers the chicken. Refrigerate for several hours, or overnight. The chicken can also be marinated in a stainless steel or glass bowl, covered and turned several times while it’s marinating. 
(Optional: You can cut lengths of scallions and put them in the bag with the marinade, then grill them with the chicken, too.) 
4. To cook, heat your grill to high heat. Remove the chicken pieces from the marinade and lay them flat on the hot grill. When well-seared on the bottom, turn them over and cook another few minutes until the thighs are cooked through. The total cooking time will be less than 5 minutes. (You can baste the thighs with any leftover marinade while grilling.) 
To cook in a skillet, cut the chicken into bite-sized pieces before marinading and put them in a large, lightly oiled skillet. When the chicken is seared on the bottom, stir the chicken and add any leftover marinade and let it reduce in the pan while the chicken finishes cooking. 
Serving: Bulgogi is often eaten wrapped in lettuce or perilla, with kimchi, thinly sliced raw garlic, perhaps slivers of fresh chili, and a dollop of Ssamjang, sometimes with a spoonful of rice in there. I like it at home served over rice with kimchi and other condiments. 

*If you don’t have mirin or rice wine, you can use rice vinegar or a sweet/fruit vinegar, like balsamic or apple cider. 

Related Recipes and Posts 

Teriyaki Chicken 

Olympic Seoul Chicken 

Beef Bulgogi (Maangchi) 

Tofu Bulgogi (Yup…it’s vegan) 

Roast Chicken with caramelized shallots 

Sweet and crispy chicken wings 

Is it Safe to Cook with Plastic? (Modernist Cuisine) 

Pajeon: Korean scallion pancakes 

Kimchi 

Kimchi omelet 

Asian ginger soy sauce chicken 

Pin 
2K 
Share 
101 
Tweet 
+1 
2 
SHARES 2K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Kimchi Recipe 

Pajeon: Korean Scallion Pancake Recipe 

Sweet and Crispy Chicken Wings 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: brown sugar bulgogi chicken dak Deuki Hong ginger kimchi korea Korean food Koreatown Matt Rodbard pepper recipe scallions sesame soy sauce 



START RECIPE

Homemade Corned Beef  
89 comments - 03.02.2016 
homemade corned beef recipeSave 
My desert island food is corned beef. Hot, piled up on a sandwich, between two pieces of rye bread with spicy brown mustard smeared liberally inside, corned beef is the one food that I could find myself being happily enjoying if trapped on a desert island. (With unlimited ice-cold pitchers of tropical cocktails, of course.) I also want cole slaw and half-sour pickles, too. Although if truth be told, I’m okay with just fat slices of corned beef, warmed, served on their own. Or simmering in a pot with potatoes and carrots with a bottle of French wine alongside. 

Many French people know pastrami, but don’t know corned beef as most of us know it. (What they get is a canned version, which looks from photographs to be closer to Spam than to actual corned beef.) Romain can’t seem to get enough pastrami and once we went to a not-so-good restaurant in Paris where I’d heard they had it on the menu. When he was served two slices of bread with only two meager, thin slices of pastrami hidden in between, he walked back into the kitchen with his sandwich in hand and told them it needed to be really, really thick. I couldn’t hear what he was saying, but he was demonstrating how thick it needed to be with his hands to the astonished cooks. 

carrots and potatoesSave 

Growing up in New England, my mother sometimes made a boiled dinner of corned beef with cabbage, potatoes and carrot. I can’t say I was a big fan of the cabbage and it wasn’t until recently that I learned that it’s actually called a New England boiled dinner, but the potatoes and carrots were great along with slices of the moist, pink meat always served with a dollop of spicy brown mustard alongside. 

When delis were more plentiful in New York City, back then, I’d look forward to our visits to get one of those loaded-up sandwiches stacked ridiculously high. A friend who grew up not far from me, recently told that they you’re supposed to order an extra piece of bread, pull out some of the meat, and eat a “normal-sized” sandwich – then take the rest home to make another one. I didn’t know that. I always ate the whole thing. Gulp. 

beef brisketSave 

A few weeks back, I was having lunch with Gregory, a French chef friend who runs Mon Éclair. He used to live in the U.S., and the subject of corned beef came up. I replied that it was unusual for French people to know corned beef, rather than pastrami, and he said “Moi? J’adore le corned beef!” 

Part of the affection for pastrami is that it has somewhat of an iconic status, and the vowel-ending word rolls off the French tongue easier than the hard consonant-ending, “corned beef.” But the other part is that “to corn” is a verb that doesn’t exist in the French vocabulary. (The word “corn” originally referred to the large grains of salt that is used for salting the meat.) The verb maïser, or “to corn,” hasn’t been added to the French verb dictionary, yet. 

French corned beef drawing 

While lunching with my chef pal over lunch at his popular Le Bar à Burger, he mentioned that he could get brisket in Paris. Huh? That was news to me, and others who’ve sent me quite a few messages from people over the years looking for brisket-cut meat in France. 

French butchers cut meat differently than their American counterparts and an American woman who has lived in Paris since the 50’s showed me some recipes and notes she had collected over the years, which probably answer the question – in words and pictures – what cut of meat brisket is, in French. Feel free to show the picture above to your local butcher in France, in the future. 

French corned beef drawing recipe 

She also had a handwritten recipe for corned beef, which curiously called for “1 œuf cru dans sa coquille,” or “a raw egg still in its shell.” I figured it was a way to test the brine for salinity, which Michael Ruhlman, author of several books on curing meat, agreed with. 

homemade corned beef recipe 

Waiting for our 5 kilos of brisket to arrive, the minimum, I went on the hunt for sel rose. It’s usually called curing salt in English and gives corned beef its distinctive pink color. You can make it without, although the corned beef will not look like traditional corned beef. (I did see this post, where they used beet juice to color the meat.) 

I also read about a new-fangled way to “bake” corned beef*, which looked and sounded interesting, until I read the words “too salty,” from people who’ve made it. I’m sort of a traditionalist about corned beef and don’t mind boiling mine. And did have fun brining my own from scratch. 

homemade corned beef recipe brining 

My curing salt was from G. Detou in Paris, and I went to my local market to buy carrots and potatoes. Fortunately someone had given me a branch of bay leaves from their tree, and once my brined brisket was ready, I was on my way to my own New England boiled dinner. 

homemade corned beef recipe 

I served this to French friends, who loved it, and told me it reminded them of Pot-au-feu, a traditional boiled beef dinner served with mustard, coarse salt, and sometimes horseradish. I was fortunate to have leftovers the next day but until I find New York-style rye bread with caraway seeds in it, in Paris, I’ll be eating my corned beef in bouillon, rather than en sandwich. 

homemade corned beef recipe 

Homemade Corned Beef 
Six servings 
If you’re a fan of cooked cabbage, you could add some green cabbage wedges along with the potatoes and carrots to the bouillon. And although not traditional where I come from, there’s no reason why you can’t sneak some other root vegetables in the broth, such as turnips or rutabagas, like they do in French Pot-au-feu. Just make sure to cut them about the same size as the other vegetables so they cook for the same time.The pink curing salt is not required but does give corned beef its traditional red color. You can omit it, if you’d like, being aware that the corned beef will be brown, rather than pink. There is a link in the post to someone who used beet juice to color the meat. If you want to use the curing salt (sometimes called Prague Salt), you can find it at Amazon, Butcher Packer or at stores that sell spices and seasonings. Note that Pink Himalayan salt is not the same thing, nor is Morton Tender Quick.Mustard is obligatory to serve with this dish. Here in France, I served it with Dijon, but spicy brown mustard in America is good, or you can make homemade mustard. (For a brown version, use dark mustard seeds.) Other options for condiments include horseradish, cornichons and very coarse salt. 
For the corned beef 
One beef brisket (4 to 5 pounds, about 2kg), trimmed of most of the excess fat 
2 quarts (1.9L) water 
1 1/4 cups (310g) coarse sea or kosher salt 
1/2 cup (90g) light or dark brown sugar 
12 whole cloves 
1 1/2 teaspoons black peppercorns 
1 teaspoon allspice berries 
2 teaspoons mustard seeds, light or dark 
4 crumbled bay leaves 
1 cinnamon stick, crumbled 
1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 
5 teaspoons pink curing salt 
For cooking the corned beef 
1 large onion, peeled and quartered 
4 large cloves garlic, peeled and minced 
Seasoning for the cooking water such as a few bay leaves, thyme or parsley sprigs 
10 large carrots (about 2 pounds, 900g), peeled and cut into sticks (quartered) 
2 pounds (900g) boiling potatoes, peeled and cut in pieces similar in size to the carrots 
1. To make the corned beef, put the water, salt, and brown sugar in a large pot and bring to a boil. 
2. While the salted water is heating up, in a skillet, toast the cloves, peppercorns, allspice berries, and mustard seeds, until they smell fragrant. It will take just a couple of minutes. Remove from heat and let cool. Once cool, lightly crush the spices in a mortar and pestle or in a zip top bag with a hammer or rolling pin. (Note: In the photo in my post, because I was so excited to have brisket, I neglected to crush them, which I do recommend to help release their flavor.) Add them to the brine, along with the bay leaves, cinnamon stick, red pepper flakes, ginger, and pink curing salt. 
3. Once the brine is hot enough so the sugar and salt are completely dissolved, remove from heat and add 2 pounds (900g) of ice cubes. Put the brine in the refrigerator until it’s completely chilled. 
4. Once cool, put the brisket in a large, zip top freezer bag set in a larger bowl. (The bowl is in case there is any overflow or spillage.) Make sure the beef is lying flat in the bag and pour the cold brine over the meat so it’s completely covered. If you have too much brine, strain out the spices, add them to the meat bag and discard the excess brine. Close the bag and let the meat sit in the refrigerator for 7 to 10 days, turning it every couple of days so the meat marinates evenly. 
5. To cook the corned beef, rinse the corned beef with cold water and put it in a large pot or Dutch oven. Add the onion, garlic, and any seasonings, and enough water to cover the beef. Bring to a boil then reduce the heat until the water is at a gentle simmer. Put the lid on the pot so it’s ajar and cook, turning the beef a few times while it’s cooking until very tender. 
6. About 45 minutes before the meat is done, add the carrots and potatoes. (And cabbage wedges, if using.) When the meat is tender and the vegetables are cooked through, the corned beef is ready to serve. The meat will take about 3 1/2 hours to cook.
Serving: Serve slices of corned beef with the potatoes and carrots, along with some of the broth. Mustard is obligatory to serve alongside. A few condiments are mentioned in the headnote. 
*Note: I mentioned Baked Corned Beef in the post and I did get around to trying it. (I used a store-bought corned beef to test it.) Because I had heard it produced a saltier corned beef, I brought the corned beef to a boil in two changes of water to desalt it a bit, then patted it dry. In a small bowl, I mixed 1/3 cup mustard and 1/4 cup light (or you can use dark) brown sugar with 1 teaspoon cider vinegar and a few good turns of black pepper. I reserved a few tablespoons of it then smeared the rest over the corned beef. It got placed fat side up on a large sheet of aluminum foil, set on a rimmed baking sheet or baking dish, and closed tightly. 

I baked it at 350ºF/160ºC for 2 1/2 hours. Then I opened the foil (carefully, as there was hot liquid in it), then smeared the rest of the glaze on the corned beef and ran it under the broiler until browned. The results? I thought it was still saltier than regular corned beef, which may be because I used a store-bought corned beef, but I found it tougher than a simmered corned beef. However it was firmer and easier to slice, so it might be preferable if you were planning to use the corned beef for sandwiches.  

Related Posts and Recipes 

Ingredients for American Baking in Paris 

Corned Short Ribs (Washington Post) 

Corned Beef and Cabbage (Simply Recipes) 

How to Make Beef Brisket Pastrami (Ruhlman) 

What’s the Difference Between Pastrami and Montreal Smoked Meat (Serious Eats) 

(Note: I’ve been to Montreal and had it there, and in Brooklyn, at Mile End Deli.) 

Nitrites and Nitrates: Are They Harmful or Actually Healthful? (Prevention) 

Nitrate in Food: Harmful or Healthy? (The American Journal of Clinical ) 

The Red-Meat Miracle (New York Times) 

Corned Beef or Pastrami: What’s the difference? (Deli Done Right) 

Is Corned Beef Really Irish? (Smithsonian) 

Why are millions of Irish-Americans serving corned beef on St. Patrick’s Day (The Irish Times) 

Information and Websites About Brisket and French Cuts of Meat 

According to the handwritten notes in the post, one says that you can use tendron, flanchet, or bavette to make corned beef, that is similar to brisket. Another says that brisket is milieu de poitrine, according to Julia Child (says the note card), accompanied by a diagram. As mentioned, I used brisket meat from Metzger which was purchased from their professional shop at Rungis, Metzger Frères. Note that my friend ordered a 5 kilo (11 pound) piece of brisket, which is what they call it, and 5 kilos is the minimum order. (Ours came in a large, cryovac package.) My recommendation would be to call the shop (not the one at Rungis) and see if they can order it for you. Note: You may have to buy 5 kilos. 

This website gives a good lexicon for French pieces of meat, in French. Although most beef cuts don’t translate exactly from French to English, or vice-versa, Grasspunk has a post: What are the English equivalents of French beef cuts. And Posted in Paris has a series of posts on Making Sense of the Supermarket in France, with a post on Cuts of Meat.   

Pin 
1K 
Share 
337 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 1K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Les Haricots Tarbais 

Nach Waxman’s Beef Brisket 
 
Patty Melt 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: baked corned beef bay leaves beef boiled corned beef brine brisket butcher carrot corned beef Dijon mustard France French garlic mustard New England boiled dinner onion pastrami pink salt recipe Saint Patricks Day salt sel rose thyme 



START RECIPE

Spaghetti Pie 
76 comments - 02.26.2016 
Spaghetti pie Save 

I’m kind of a nitwit in social situations. Consider last spring (or was it summer?), when I was at a party in New York, I met Justin Chapple. A bunch of us chatted casually over cocktails in our friend’s backyard, but I found out later he is the Mad Genius over at Food & Wine and he’s on television and all that good stuff. After I found that out, I’d hoped that I didn’t have any stray ear hairs or say something inappropriate, which happens a little too-often to me at parties. (Hence the dwindling lack of invitations in my mailbox.) 

Spaghetti pie recipeSave 

But he’s got some serious feathers in his cap, including being an absolute genius for his recipe for Cacio e Pepe Pasta Pie, which looked amazing on the Food & Wine website. For some reason, I had a bag of spaghetti in my kitchen cupboard which I’d been looking at for the past few months. I think I was planning on making spaghetti and meatballs, but the project eventually moved to the back burner – or drawer. So I decided to give the Spaghetti Pie a try. 

Black pepper for Spaghetti pie Save 

Traditionalists can relax because I’ve recast it a bit, and it’s been redubbed Spaghetti Pie, or maybe Torte. (Because I didn’t want to get into any more trouble.) Like the original Cacio e pepe pasta, which relies on pecorino cheese and lots of freshly ground black pepper for flavor, this pie (or torte) has additional cheese to make it more substantial, and so it’s sliceable when baked. I used mostly French cheeses which take it even further from its semi-Italian roots, but it was absolutely delicious, no matter what cheese I swapped out, or what you want to call it. Being popular is overrated. (Well, from what I hear…) 

three cheeses for spaghetti pie recipeSave 

I don’t normally buy cheese at the supermarket in France, since I like to support the fromagers at the markets, but it was one of those on-a-hunch meals, and I didn’t have much of a choice. If you look selectively, you can get decent cheeses at the supermarket not only in France, but in the United States as well. Comté is a reliably good choice that’s always available, and I was surprised to find pecorino, which isn’t so widely available. I augmented them with a soft mountain-style tomme, a catch-all term used to describe any number of mountain cheeses in France. This one was similar to Fontina (it’s the one in the middle, above), which gave it a dense, yet creamy texture. 

Cheese for Spaghetti pie Save 

I was a bit skeptical – which may be another reason people move away from me at parties – when I stirred the warm pasta into the milk, eggs and cheese, I tasted a few forkfuls because it looked so good, and had a hard time stopping myself and added it to the baking pan before I polished the giant pot of pasta off. 

But later, when I unmolded the spaghetti pie from the pan, I was happily surprised at how beautiful it was. After it cooled a bit, I plunged my knife in and cut off a wedge and tasted it again. Sure enough, it was even better than it was before. Justin may be the mad genius, but I was a happy diner. 

Spaghetti pie Save 

This is the perfect dish to go with the quintessential salad that recipe writers often suggest to accompany a filling or carbo-forward main course, such as this. I tossed up a lively salad of winter greens with radicchio, Belgian endive, and watercress in a mustardy vinaigrette and served it with a light red wine. I’ve taken to adding a handful of toasted pumpkin seeds to my salads to give them a bit of nutty crunch. Due to their slender shape, they meld very well with salads, just like this peppery pasta melded to a crispy, golden pie (or torte) in my oven. 

Spaghetti pie Save 

Spaghetti Pie 
8 to 10 servings 
Adapted from Cacio e Pepe Pasta Pie by Justin Chapel of Food & WineI urge you to use freshly ground black pepper that you grind before making this. This torte (or cake) was based on Cacio e pepe, an Italian pasta that gets its distinctive flavor from pecorino cheese and lots of black pepper. If you can’t get pecorino, Parmesan and Asiago are different, but probably the closest substitutes. Also different, but delicious, is Vella dry jack cheese, made in California.I used cheeses that were available to me, and suggest if you can’t get Comte use Gruyere, Emmenthal or Jarlsberg as a substitute for it. (A mild cheddar may work as well.) For the softer cheese, I used a Tomme de montagne, a “catch-all” term in France for a mountain cheese that’s often semi-soft. Fontina isn’t available in France very easily, but I know it is elsewhere. Feel free to use Gouda, Vacherin Fribourgeois, or Morbier in its place. You can make this gluten-free by substituting a gluten-free spaghetti, perhaps cooking it even less than al dente, since it tends to be a lot softer than standard pasta. (Other pasta shapes would work as well, too.)If you don’t have a springform pan, you could bake this in a similar sized casserole and serve it sliced directly from the baking dish without unmolding it. 
1 pound (455g) dried spaghetti 
1 1/2 cups whole milk 
3 large eggs, room temperature 
1 1/2 teaspoons sea or kosher salt 
2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper 
pinch red pepper powder 
3/4 cup (70g) finely grated pecorino cheese 
3 cups (7 ounces, 200g) grated Comté, or a Swiss-style cheese 
3 cups (7 ounces, 200g) grated Fontina, or a similar semisoft cheese 
1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Cook the spaghetti just until it’s very al dente. Do not cook until completely tender. (The recommended cooking time on my bag was 10 minutes. I cooked mine for 8 minutes.) 
2. Preheat the oven to 425ºF (220ºC). Butter a 9-inch (23cm) springform pan. Wrap the bottom very securely in one large sheet of aluminum foil. Set the pan on a rimmed baking sheet lined with foil. (Extra insurance in case your pan leaks a bit.) 
3. When the pasta is done, drain it well and let cool slightly. 
4. In the pot, whisk together the milk, eggs, salt, black and red peppers. Set 1/2 cup (40g) of each of the Comte and Fontina cheeses aside. (Total: 1 cup/80g.) Stir the rest of the grated cheese, as well as the pecorino, into the milk and egg mixture. 
5. Stir the slightly cooled spaghetti into the milk and cheese until it is completely combined. 
6. Transfer the mixture to the prepared springform pan. Smooth the top so it’s relatively even and sprinkle the 1 cup (80g) reserved grated cheese over the top. 
7. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, until the cake feels just set in the center and is slightly bubbling around the edges. Turn on the broiler and brown the top of the torte on the upper-third rack of the oven until well-browned. Remove from oven and run a knife around the inside of the cake pan to loosen the pie from the sides. Let rest about 10 minutes then released and remove the sides of the pan. Serve while still warm, in slices. It can also be served at room temperature if you’re looking for a picnic dish. 
Storage: The torte can be made up to three days in advance and refrigerated, then rewarmed in the oven, covered with foil. It can be frozen for up to two months. 

Spaghetti pie Save 

Pin 
530 
Share 
55 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 585 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Cranberry Raisin Pie 

Meatball Sandwich 

French Apple Pie 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: spaghetti Pie Asiago black pepper Chapple cheese comte Emmenthal Fontina Food & Wine Jarlsberg Justin Parmesan Pecorino pepper pie recipe red pepper salt spaghetti Swiss cheese tomme torte 
 


START RECIPE

Arroz con pollo: Spanish Chicken with rice 
86 comments - 01.28.2016 
 
Spanish Chicken and RiceSave 

Every time I go back to San Francisco, there is a crush of people that I want to see. In addition to everyone that I want to catch up with, there’s also a whirlwind of places I want to go to visit, from favorite taquerias to new chocolate and pastry places. (Not sure what happened in my absence, but the city has really ramped up the bakery options.) I stopped trying to do (and eat) it all because there’s nothing worse than a vacation where you don’t get to relax and just go for a walk. But I do regret not being able to see all my friends. 

One such friend is Joanne Weir. Part of the reason I don’t get to see her is because she’s always going off somewhere, traipsing around Greece, Morocco, Italy, or Provence. And so far, she has declined to take me along. However I feel like I’m with her when I read her newest book, Kitchen Gypsy, stories of her travels around the world, including how she became a cook, starting doing the more elemental t at Chez Panisse – making the daily pasta for the café – to eventually learning to cook with the great, and mercurial, Madeleine Kamman, before becoming a cooking teacher, cookbook author and television personality. And now she even owns a restaurant, Copita, yet another place that I have to put on my list to visit in the San Francisco Bay Area. 

Spanish Chicken and RiceSave 

In her new book, she talks about our time together at Chez Panisse. I remember liking Joanne instantly. We were both New Englanders, young, and eager to cook. And she just has that kind of personality that draws you in.  Joanne included a story about me in her book, along with a picture that’s probably twenty years old, when I made an ice cream inspired by Madeleine Kamman, who I both admired and was completely terrified of. 

Unlike others who took her cooking program (half the students left right before graduation when Joanne was there), Joanne stuck it out and learned much about cooking from the legendary Madame Kamman. She was a legend because she wrote some of the most highly regarded, outstanding books on cooking and French cuisine. But also earned her reputation for being sharp, difficult, and unpleasant. (She was notoriously irked that Julia Child became so popular writing about French cuisine.) You can read some of the tales in Joanne’s book, along with how finding a fly in a bottle of French wine led to a lifelong friendship with the winemaker in France, why she wanted to become a cooking teacher, and how she came to travel around the world, cooking her way through France, Italy, North Africa, and Spain. 

Spanish Chicken and RiceSave 

Because Joanne has been a cooking teacher for so many years, her recipes are especially well-written. The one that appealed to me most, though, was Arroz con pollo, or Spanish chicken with rice. I went out and bought a chicken, a few slender red peppers and a tin of pimento-stuffed olives, pulling my paella pan off the shelf, a gift from David Tanis, who we both worked for, and with, at Chez Panisse. Which seemed fitting to use right now. 

Spanish Chicken and RiceSave 

Spanish Chicken and RiceSave 

I was super fortunate because at a booksigning I did in the states a year or so ago, a lovely Iranian-American woman pressed a packet of saffron in my hand, which was one of the best gifts I ever got. When I put a picture of it on Instagram, people from Iran told me that it was, indeed, the best saffron. And that’s something, considering that no matter what you use or have, or where you go, if you post a picture of it on social media, someone always tells you there is something better. This saffron is the ne plus ultra of saffron. (And if you write something in French, someone will tell you that it’s nec plus ultra, although Webster’s offers up a different spelling in English.) 

Spanish Chicken and RiceSave 

All I know is that it’s amazing saffron and made a fragrant base for the Spanish-style rice. 

Spanish Chicken and RiceSave 

Speaking of which, I was a little concerned about the rice. Joanne calls for Spanish bomba rice. It’s not a sticky rice and in fact, in France “round” rice is sold for the cuisine sucrée (desserts), in addition to savory cooking. I don’t have much experience using it for savory cooking and did a little reading up about it as it’s often mentioned in the same breath with its cousin, arborio rice. 

Spanish Chicken and RiceSave 

But it’s worth tracking down short-grain “round” rice for Arroz con pollo. The article I linked to just above gives locavore Russell Moore‘s trick for turning California Japanese short-grain rice into Spanish-style rice. Russell is another friend who worked with me and Joanne…and David…at Chez Panisse. Amazing how many of my former co-workers I could weave into this one dish, but it’s Joanne that I have to thank here for her friendship over the years, and this hearty Spanish-inspired dish. 

Spanish Chicken and RiceSave  

Arroz con pollo 
Serves six 
Adapted from Kitchen Gypsy: Recipe and Stories from a Lifelong Romance with Food by Joanne WeirSpanish Bomba rice is the preferred rice for this dish, which is often called “paella rice.” Anticipating questions, I ed Joanne if Arborio rice would work and she said it might, although it absorbs less liquid than the Bomba rice. According to this article in the San Jose Mercury News, 1 cup of Bomba rice will absorb approximately 3 cups of water whereas Arborio rice will absorb 2 cups. So for those with good math skills, you could do some tinkering if you want to use Arborio rice.Bomba rice is available at The Spanish Table, La Tienda and Amazon. I used round rice (short-grain) from the supermarket, which worked well. In Paris, you can find it at G. Detou. One reader told me that she used Goya Valencia rice, which worked very well, too.To peel fresh tomatoes, make an X with a paring knife in the round end (opposite the stem end) and drop them in a pot of boiling water for about a minute. Remove them and pass them under cool running water for a moment, and the skins will slip off. Cut them in half around the equator and squeeze out the seeds then dice them.For those avoiding wine, substitute an equal amount of water with a good squeeze of fresh lemon juice in it.There’s no substitute for saffron. Some suggest a tiny pinch of ground turmeric for color, but it’s really not the same thing and the flavor is completely different. I suggest hunting some actual saffron down if you can and if cost is an object, only use 1/2 teaspoon of it. If not, you can leave it out. Some Europeans use Spigot spice mix with a small percentage of saffron and there is Bijol, a Cuban condiment, and Sazón, a Mexican one made by Goya, but once again, they only contain a very small amount of actual saffron.
One whole chicken, cut into 8: two thighs, two legs and two breasts (bone in) cut in half crosswise (reserve the carcass and wings for stock) 
2 1/2 teaspoons dried oregano 
2 teaspoons (total) sea or kosher salt 
freshly ground black pepper 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 onion, peeled and diced 
1 red bell pepper or 2 sweet red peppers, seeded and sliced in 1/3-inch (1cm) strips, lengthwise 
4 garlic cloves, peeled and minced 
1/2 to 1 teaspoon saffron threads 
1/8 teaspoon red chile flakes 
2 1/2 cups peeled, seeded and diced fresh tomatoes, or 2 1/2 cups (725g) diced canned tomatoes (including their juices) 
2 1/2 cups (625ml) water 
1/2 cup (125ml) dry white wine 
2 cups (400g) Spanish bomba rice or short-grain (or round)rice 
1/2 cup (80g) pitted green olives (preferably pimento-stuffed) sliced 
3/4 cup (110g) fresh or frozen green peas 
1. In a bowl, season the chicken with the oregano, 1 teaspoon of salt, and black pepper. Rub it in well, cover and refrigerate for at least an hour. (The chicken can be seasoned a day in advance.) 
2. Preheat the oven to 350ºF (180ºC). 
3. In an 8-quart Dutch oven or casserole, or paella pan, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Cook the chicken pieces in a single layer, in batches if necessary, so they aren’t crowded into the pan, until they are well browned on all sides. Once the first batch is done, transfer the chicken to a plate and brown the remaining pieces. 
4. When the second batch of chicken is done, remove the pieces to a plate with the others and drain off all but 2 tablespoons of fat or oil left in the pan. Add the onions and peppers to the pan and cook, stirring frequently, until they start to wilt. Add the garlic, saffron (use the smaller amount if on a budget), red chile flakes, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Continue cooking until the onions and peppers are wilted and soft. 
5. Add the tomatoes, water, and wine to the pan. Arrange the chicken in the pan, skin side up, cover the pot tightly and bake for 30 minutes in the oven. 
6. Remove the pan from the oven and add the rice, directing it in the areas in between the chicken pieces. Strew the olives over the chicken and liquid, and sprinkle with 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Stir gently to even out the rice in the pan. Cover and cook for 20 minutes. 
7. Remove from the oven, add the peas, and cover. Cook until the rice has absorbed almost all of the liquid and it’s tender. 
Note: Joanne and I had a flurry of emails about this. She uses Spanish rice and said it takes 10 minutes more at this point. I used store-bought rice and mine needed an additional 20 to 25 minutes more. So just check by lifting the lid or foil covering over the pot to see when the liquid is absorbed. It’s done when the rice is tender. There may be a small amount of liquid, which should be absorbed during the final few minutes of resting. 
8. When done, remove from the oven and let stand 10 minutes, covered, before serving. 
Pin 
193 
Share 
71 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 264 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Endive and Ham Gratin 

Vaghareli Makai (Spiced Indian Corn) 

Strawberry Frozen Yogurt with Summer Fruits and Italian Meringues 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: Arroz con pollo Bomba Chez Panisse chicken chicken with rice David Tanis green olives Joanne Weir paella peas recipe red peppers rice Russell Moore saffron Spanish 



START RECIPE

Chicken in Red Wine Vinegar 
73 comments - 12.14.2015 
Chicken cooked in red wine vinegarSave 

When I moved to France, Romain dubbed me “chicken man,” because I was always ordering, or buying, chicken. It’s not that the French don’t eat or like chicken, it’s just that it’s considering rather common fare, and not really something that is given a lot of attention. Americans love chicken, not just in our beloved fried chicken, but in lots of other preparations. I’m not sure why we took to it with so much fervor, but I’m guilty of liking it quite a bit. When I want something meaty, but not too heavy or “beefy,” chicken certainly fits that bill. 

There are a few notable restaurants in Paris that serve roast chicken: at L’Ami Louis, the poulet rôti will set you back 95€. And no, I’ve not had it, for a variety of reasons. (One of which, of course, is the price.) But few Parisians order roast chicken when dining out because the spit-roasted poulet rôti you buy at the markets and at butcher shops is so much better than what you can make at home. And most butchers and volaillers know that if they put that rotating spit outside their shop, it’s hard for passers-by to resist going home without one. Although my butcher also has lamb’s heads on the spit and they keep trying to convince me to try one of those instead. For a variety of reasons, one being that I don’t feel comfortable picking around teeth and jawbones to have my dinner. And I’m not sure my other-half would be so happy if he opened the bag, expecting a roast chicken, and instead was greeted by a lamb face staring back at him. 

Chicken cooked in red wine vinegarSave 

Even though I said that French people don’t eat chicken when they go out with the same zeal that Americans do, a classic French dish that I first had many, many years ago at a bouchon in Lyon is chicken cooked in red vinegar. It’s a wonderful dish and a little break if you’ve been making the same chicken (or lamb head) dishes, over and over and over again. 

One thing that doesn’t get a lot of press is vinegar. People talk endlessly about olive oil, but vinegar – its less-glamorous cousin – gets short shift. Vinegar is pretty inexpensive and, like olive oil, using a good one is one of those very easy ways to improve the flavor of your foods. Unlike olive oil, however, it won’t break the bank to buy decent bottle of vinegar. 

When I was 9 or so, I had dinner at a friend’s house and his mother made a salad that was so good, I had to  what was in it. She pulled out a bottle of Dessaux Fils red wine vinegar, which seems to no longer be made in France anymore, and I got my mother to upgrade from the supermarket-brand vinegar she was using. It even made the Good Seasons dressing that launched my career as a pastry-maker (I got to measure ingredients!), taste better. 

I normally eschew tomatoes in the winter, and am not a fan of hot-house tomatoes. but I didn’t want to veer too much from this recipe, adapted from Bistro Cooking, a much-loved collection of recipes for classic French fare by Patricia Wells. Roma tomatoes are usually better, but I couldn’t locate any. But use those if you can. French chefs like to peel tomatoes, and I was gifted a nifty Swiss tomato peeler by Nick Malgieri, which I finally put to good use. Which worked better, uh…once I took the plastic edge guard off. D’oh! 

Chicken cooked in red wine vinegarSave 

Good French cooking doesn’t involve a lengthy list of ingredients, or even a Swiss vegetable peeler. But relies on coaxing out flavors from the few that you use. It’s also frugal: There’s nothing in this dish that’s going to break the bank. It’s just a few simple ingredients, simmered together on the stovetop, resulting in a soul-satisfying dish that’s hard not to like. Part of coaxing out the most flavor from meats and poultry involves browning the meat in butter or oil, which deepens the flavor of the sauce and flavors the meat. 

Chicken cooked in red wine vinegarSave 

French cooks (and Asian ones, come to think of it), often cut on-bone chicken breasts crosswise, creating two smaller pieces, which allows any marinade or other cooking flavors, to permeate the meat. This is just the kind of dish that you want in the winter. You can pair it with wide noodles, which soak up the sauce, or puree, or mashed potatoes, to the French. While chicken doesn’t always get the same love that we give it (nor do lamb têtes), they do love potatoes. So much so that when you see the word puree, it’s a given that it’s going to be potatoes. The side dish is up to you, but the red wine? That’s non-negotiable. 

Chicken cooked in red wine vinegarSave delimJUNK

Chicken in Red Wine Vinegar Sauce 
Four to six servings 
Adapted from Bistro Cooking by Patricia WellsIf you want to use other pieces of chicken, feel free to. (This recipe can be made with 4 to 5 pounds, 2 to 2.25kg, of any bone-in chicken parts.) The chicken should get well-browned. The original recipe said to use a skillet but if you have a Dutch oven, I’d use that. If so, if you have one of those splatter screens, this is the time to use it.Should you not have a tomato peeler, cut an x in the bottom of the two tomatoes, plop them in a small pot of boiling water for about 30 seconds, then rinse them in a strainer or colander with cold running water. The skins will slip off. Cut them in half around the equator, squeeze out the seeds, and dice them into small pieces.Do-ahead folks will love this recipe as it’s just as good the second day. You can let the chicken and sauce cool, then refrigerate. Rewarm the chicken and the sauce in a covered pot. 
1 chicken cut into 8 pieces; two legs, two thighs and two breasts (with wings attached) split crosswise, at room temperature 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 tablespoons olive oil 
1 tablespoon, plus 3 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1 cup (250ml) chicken stock 
1 cup (250ml) good-quality red wine vinegar 
2 medium tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and diced 
Flat-leaf parsley, or another chopped herb, for garnish 
1. Pat the chicken dry and season the pieces with salt and pepper. 
2. Heat the olive oil and 1 tablespoon of butter over medium-high heat in a Dutch oven or wide skillet. When the oil is hot, brown the chicken parts in two batches, starting them skin side down, turning them only when they are well-browned on one side. Once the pieces from the first batch are well-browned on both sides, remove the pieces and put in a bowl or plate and cook the second batch. When the second batch of chicken parts are well-browned, put them with the other browned chicken pieces and pour any excess fat out of the pan and dispose of it properly. (Or use it to make bird suet.) 
3. Add about one-quarter of the stock to the pan and scrape the bottom to lift and incorporate all the browned bits. Add the chicken to the pan – as well as any liquid in the bottom of the bowl or plate they were resting in – and the vinegar. (The original recipes warns of kitchen-cleaning vinegar fumes, so be prepared, although I didn’t experience that.) Cook over medium heat, turning the chicken pieces a few times, until the vinegar is reduced by about half, about ten minutes. 
4. Add the tomatoes and the rest of the chicken stock. Reduce the heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer for about 20 minutes, turning the chicken pieces over midway during cooking, until the chicken is cooked through. To test, pull a piece of one of the thickest pieces of chicken meat away from the bone to make sure it’s fully cooked. 
5. Add the remaining 3 tablespoons of butter, cut in pieces, to the warm pan liquid, swirling it around until the butter is melted. Taste, and add more salt and pepper if desired. Serve with wide noodles, sauteed greens like Swiss chard or kale, or mashed potatoes with some of the sauce. Sprinkle with freshly chopped parsley, or another favorite herb. 
Related Recipes 

Olympic Seoul Chicken 

Roast Chicken with Caramelized Shallots 

Chicken Marsala 

French-Fried Chicken 
 
Pin 
386 
Share 
37 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 423 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Provencal Chicken with Pastis 

Chicken Basteeya 

Roast Chicken with Caramelized Shallots 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: Bistro Cooking chicken chicken stock Dessaux Fils Patricia Wells recipe red wine vinegar tomato tomatoes 



START RECIPE

Shrimp and Chive Potsticker Dumplings 
46 comments - 09.24.2015 
Shrimp and Chive Potsticker DumplingsSave
This year seems to be a banner year for cookbooks and there are so many that I’ve leafed through and bookmarked, that even though it’s early in the cookbook season, I feel like I already have the next twelve month’s worth of great recipes to try on my docket. Lately I’ve been impressed by books that make cuisines that people might feel daunted about tackling, accessible. And even though the internet has made finding international ingredients easier, I’m drawn to books and recipes that don’t make you feel like an idiot if you don’t have colatura, or can’t find rascasse at your local fish market for your bouillabaisse. (Or don’t feel like wrestling with a live eel to make it.) Authenticity is nice to aspire to, but I’m also happy cooking something with ingredients that I can find locally. 

Shrimp and Chive Potsticker DumplingsSave 

Bouillabaisse was a dish made by fishmongers in Marseilles who used leftover scraps of fish, what they couldn’t sell, to make the soup. It was never intended to be a luxury dinner made with pricey imported seafood. So the esprit of the dish is to use what’s available in your locale. Ditto with cassoulet, which was a nourishing, peasant meal made with dried beans and bits of leftover and preserved meats. Using beans that cost $30 per pound somewhat negates the concept of cassoulet. 

Food changes and evolves, especially in America, a land of immigrants, where new combinations are tested when some ingredients aren’t available, and cooks and chefs make changes based on the seasons and regions. In one excellent new cookbook I’ve been reading, Zahav, chef Michael Solomonov talks about how in the winter, rather than using bland tomatoes for tabbouleh, he uses persimmons. It is more authentic to make tabbouleh with tasteless, out-of-season tomatoes? Or to use something fresh, delicious, and available, which is the spirit of the original dish? He argues for the latter, which makes sense to me. 

Shrimp and Chive Potsticker DumplingsSave 

Most of us in America grew up with some form of “Americanized” versions of Chinese food. So the esprit of the dishes isn’t a strict adherence to a list of ingredients, but making do with whatever you have. That’s how Thai, Italian, and French food evolved, even in their own countries. And if you don’t believe me,  our Italian neighbors in France where pistou and macarons came from. 

Perhaps because I’m from America where immigrants brought most of our food from somewhere else, origins are not something that I feel like is worth quibbling over, or rigidly defending authenticity, because it doesn’t seem to matter to me at this point. I just care that food is good, made with good intentions, and fresh. Michael Solomonov, Daniel Boulud, Eddie Huang, David Chang, Alice Waters, Dominique Ansel, and Yotam Ottolenghi have shown that foods steeped in long-standing traditions from certain countries cultures can be updated for today’s tastes, successfully using ingredients that are available in other parts of the world. 

Shrimp and Chive Potsticker DumplingsSave 

That said, to be honest, I was a little skeptical when I got Lucky Peach Presents 101 Easy Asian Favorites, somewhat because of the “pop” design that is intended to look like a 1960’s American Chinese cookbook, the kind that had recipes for rumaki and pu pu platters, accompanied by pictures of backyard tiki parties. I think all those things are fun, but I worked in an excellent, and – yup – authentic Chinese and Southeast Asian restaurant for a few years, and wasn’t sure I needed a book of recipes that are self-described as 100% inauthentic. 

Shrimp and Chive Potsticker DumplingsSave 

But as I leafed through the book, I was completely won over by it. I liked how it makes Asian cooking fun and accessible. Every recipe in the book would be easy for anyone to make. Sure, if you want to tackle the great dishes of China, you can find books that will help you do that. (And then spend a few days gathering all the ingredients.) But if you just want to make a batch of dumplings, and feel like a pro with a lot less effort, or roast off a batch of sticky ribs with fish sauce, this book will help you to do that. Cooking is supposed to be fun, and tackling a project like making homemade dumplings will make you feel like you’ve really accomplished something. I know, because I’ve done it. 

101 Easy Asian Favorites is a book that anyone could make any recipe from. That’s something I want in a cookbook. (Although there’s certainly room for all types of cookbooks, from ones that capture authentic foods and their fascinating lineage, to reference books that I use for understanding the technical aspects of cooking and baking.) But I find myself being less-drawn to “aspirational” cookbooks that keep you at a distance from your kitchen, rather than cookbooks that are actually useful, and get you cooking. Or in the case of these dumplings – folding and pinching. 

Shrimp and Chive Potsticker DumplingsSave 

Called potstickers in America (and Jiaozi in Chinese), these kinds of dumplings are said to be the result of a happy accident when someone was frying up a batch of dumplings and some water unintentionally got spilled into the pan they were cooking in. The dumplings “stuck” to the pan, giving them a crisp crust on the bottom. I love dumplings and they are one of the foods that I could eat for breakfast, lunch, and, dinner. And then as a midnight snack. 

These are very easy to make, with a short list of ingredients. It might take you a few tries to get the dumpling folds right, but once fried up and dipped in sauce, you’ll feel confident sitting down to a plate of steaming hot homemade dumplings, no matter when you want to eat them. 

Shrimp and Chive Potsticker DumplingsSave 

Shrimp and Chive Potstickers 
About 60 dumplings 
Adapted from Lucky Peach Presents 101 Easy Asian Recipes by Peter MeehanThe amount of dumplings you’ll get from this depends on how much filling you put in each. I started with a 1-pound (450g) package of dumpling wrappers which had 30 wrappers in it, and used a very generous 1 1/2 teaspoon of filling per dumpling. I ended up going out for more wrappers to use up the rest of the shrimp filling. You may get less but best to err on the side of having a few extra wrappers (which can be frozen for the next batch). You don’t want to overstuff the dumpling wrappers, but put the right amount in so you can close them without the filling oozing out. The first few may be clunky, until you get the right amount of filling for the wrappers that you have. By the second or third dumpling, you’ll be more confident.There’s a very good tutorial here on folding these kinds of dumplings. If you don’t want to fuss with them, the dumplings can be made by simply folding the round wonton wrappers over the filling, forming semi-circles, making sure to press as much air out of them as possible before sealing. I used garlic chives, which I bought in Chinatown, which lent a lovely emerald color and gave a sharper taste to the filling. Regular chives will work fine as well.If you would prefer to boil or steam the dumplings, you can do either: Steamed dumplings will take about 8 to 10 minutes to cook, boiled dumplings will take 3 to 4 minutes. If frozen, they’ll take at least twice as long, in my experience. In addition to the simple dipping sauce, I usually like to have a little hot sauce on hand, too, and serve a little chile paste or another Asian hot sauce with them. 
For the dumplings 
1 pound (450g) uncooked shelled shrimp fresh or frozen (if frozen, thawed) 
1 cup finely minced garlic chives or 2 bunches regular chives, minced 
1 tablespoon peeled, minced ginger 
1 large egg, lightly beaten 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 tablespoon Shaoxing wine or sherry 
1/2 teaspoon sesame oil 
1/2 teaspoon white or black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
Two 1-pound (450g) packages of dumpling wrappers 
Dipping Sauce 
3 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 teaspoon rice vinegar 
1 teaspoon sugar 
2 tablespoons water 
a few drops of sesame oil 
1. To make the dumplings, peel and chop the shrimp, either with a chef’s knife or pulsing them in a food processor. In a medium-sized bowl, mix the chopped shrimp with the chives, ginger, egg, soy sauce, Shaoxing, sesame oil, pepper, and salt. Cover and chill the mixture for at least 30 minutes. 
While the filling is resting, make the dipping sauce by stirring together the soy sauce, vinegar, sugar, water, and sesame oil until the sugar is dissolved.
2. To stuff the dumplings, have a small glass of water with a brush ready. Dust a baking sheet lightly with corn starch. (I line the baking sheet with parchment as well for extra insurance.)  
3. Brush a circle of water around the outer rim of a dumpling wrapper with water. Place a generous teaspoon or so of filling in the middle, then fold the opposite edges of the dough over the filling, and pinch it together in the center. (As shown in the photo, in the post.) Working with your fingers, pleat the edges of the dough to enclose the filling, making sure to expel as much air as possible from the inside before closing them up, and making sure there are no gaps, so the dumplings are completely sealed shut. 
4. Place the dumpling flat side down on the corn starch dusted baking sheet, and fill the rest of the dumplings the same way. 
5. To cook, add enough neutral-flavored cooking oil in a skillet (one which has a cover) until it coats the bottom of the pan. You can use a non-stick skillet, a wok, or a cast iron one. Heat the oil over medium-high heat until it is hot and sizzling. 
6. Add enough dumplings to the pan, flat side down, cooking as many as will fit in the pan, but they should not be touching. (You will likely have to fry the dumplings in batches, depending on the size of your pan.) Fry for 1 minute, until the dumplings are browned on the bottom. Add ¼ cup (60ml) of water to the pan, then quickly cover. Let the dumplings cook until the dumplings are cooked through, about 3 minutes. To check for doneness, the dough should become translucent in all places. 
7. Remove the lid and cook until the water is boiled off and the dumplings are browned and crisp on the bottom. 
Serve the dumplings warm with dipping sauce and hot sauce, such as chili oil, if desired. 
Storage: The filling and the dumplings can be made one day in advance and refrigerated, covered with plastic wrap or a tea towel. The uncooked dumplings can be frozen on a corn starch dusted baking sheet, then transferred to a zip-top plastic bag and kept for up to two months in the freezer. 

Related Recipes 

Sui Mai Dumplings 

Tricotin Dim Sum in Paris 

Thai Stir-Fried Chicken with Chile Jam 

Thai Green Curry 

Vietnamese Rice Noodle Salad 
 
Pin 
305 
Share 
37 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 342 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Spritz 

Thai Stir-Fried Chicken with Chile Jam 

Pickled Strawberry Preserves 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: 101 Easy Asian Recipes Alice Waters Asian Chinese chives Daniel Boulud Dominique Ansel dumplings esprit French Cuisine fun in the kitchen garlic chives ginger Italian Lucky Peach macaron Michael Solomonov Peter Meehan potstickers recipe soy sauce vinegar wonton wrapper Yotam Ottolenghi Zahav 



START RECIPE

Vaghareli Makai (Spiced Indian Corn) 
41 comments - 09.01.2015 
Spiced Indian CornSave 

If I had a nickel for every time I heard, “You should go to_________,” I’d have enough money to upgrade on all those flights that I’d be taking, which would make that prolific quantity of air travel a little more tolerable. Don’t get me wrong, I appreciate suggestions and people looking out for me, so I don’t miss anything great. 

But for anyone who has ever spent an afternoon (or morning, or evening) in an airport, waiting on the tarmac, or in the airport for a delayed flight ing the overworked staff calm everyone’s frayed nerves, or being crammed into one of those remarkably uncomfortable economy airplane seats for 12 hours, perhaps you’ll understand why I’m not all that anxious to get on a plane, in spite of all the great places that I am missing out on visiting. 

Indian Spiced CornSave 

At this rate, I don’t think India is going to happen for me unless I find myself with a month of free time, because it seems like going over there and not spending that much time would be criminal, and they let me sleep in the area where the flight attendants sleep on the plane. (If any are reading, I promise to bring you cookies and treats for our little slumber party.) But for now, it looks like I will only have to imagine the swirl of colors, naans, dust, spices, curries, mukhwas (seed mixtures), animals, chutneys, music, and fiery chiles that all come together in that fascinating country. 

So I was stoked when my copy of Near & Far: Recipes Inspired by Home and Travel by Heidi Swanson landed in my mailbox. (See? I’m so lazy, I don’t even like to travel to the store…) Heidi writes the blog that most inspires me to quit blogging since I don’t think mine could ever be as beautiful as hers. Every photo on her site looks like something I need to eat right now, even if it has an unusual name or features an ingredient that I am unfamiliar with. 

Spiced Indian CornSave 

Fortunately I’m not the jealous type so you’ll still have me to kick around a little longer. And to be honest, Heidi’s also a lovely person – and a coffee (and Kouign Aman) pal when I’m in San Francisco – and has shared a glass or two of rosé with me in Paris, too. 

In addition to liking the same foods and wines, she also seems to like all the same countries and cuisines that I like, which she features in this gorgeous cookbook, which isn’t just a book of recipes but also a travelogue inspired by her travels to distant lands, as well as her home in San Francisco. 

Spiced Indian CornSave 

Italy, Japan, France, and Morocco are represented in the book, and the one place that’s still on my “You should go to” list, India, which, when I have enough miles (or goodwill, in the form of cookies for the flight attendants) to upgrade to a bigger seat on the plane, I hope to visit. While I wait for that good karma to arrive, I’ll have to be an armchair traveler and enjoy India from afar, which is a pleasure in Heidi’s book, with her descriptions of the markets, traveling on funky roads and, of course, hitting the food stalls. 

Spiced Indian CornSave 

The first recipe that caught my eye in the book was an Indian dish, which was accompanied by her description of seeing a woman dressed in a colorful sari at a market, who was possibly a spice vendor, eating a bowl of something she describes as “…beautiful and simple and you knew at a glance that it tasted good.” Everything you want to know about this dish is pretty well summed up in that one sentence. And I had to make it. 

Since fresh corn was still hanging on for the season, I quickly rounded up the few spices needed to give it a go. Sure enough, it was good. In fact, it was great, and very easy. 

Indian Spiced CornSave 

Spiced Indian CornSave 

You make a spicy paste, then fry up mustard seeds until the sizzle, add kernels of corn and roasted peanuts, then finish the dish with a flurry of cilantro and sesame seeds. A few squeezes of lime brings the flavors alive, and you’ll be as hooked as I was when you spoon up that first mouthful. (If corn isn’t in season, you can use frozen corn, thawed, or another vegetable that’s available. A few are suggested right before the recipe, below.) 

I had dinner with a friend last night who I cooked with at Chez Panisse, and when I told her about this dish – spicy corn, peanuts, chiles, butter, finished with a hit of lime, sesame, and cilantro, her eyes got wider and wider as I described it. I could tell, she was going to make it as soon as I posted it today. 

Far & Near is one of those cookbooks that’s so beautiful that you’re almost afraid to use it. But please do. My copy is bookmarked with a few other recipes to try, and once you flip through it, yours will be too. 

Spiced Indian CornSave 

Vaghareli Makai (Spiced Indian Corn) 
Four servings 
Adapted from Near & Far by Heidi SwansonFor this recipe, you’ll need to clarify some butter, which lends an extra-buttery flavor to the corn. You’ll find instructions here, or head to your local Indian shop for some ghee. Although this recipe is terrific with fresh corn, if it’s not available you can use frozen corn, thawed. Heidi says it’s nice made with asparagus or broccoli, but my bets are that I’ll be making it with cauliflower come winter.The original recipe called for “2 small red chiles” so you can use whatever kind of chile pepper you want, depending on how hot and spicy you like things. I split the difference with a habanero (very hot) and jalapeno (somewhat milder). In the photo in the post, the habanero is the smaller, wrinkled pepper and the jalapeno is the longer one . Toasted cashews would make a good substitute for the peanuts, or for those avoiding nuts, use pumpkin seeds. To make it vegan, Heidi recommends using sunflower oil in place of the butter. 
2 small red chiles, stemmed, seeded (if desired), and sliced 
2 medium garlic cloves, peeled and sliced 
One 1-inch (3cm) piece of fresh ginger peeled and sliced 
1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 
3/4 teaspoon sea or kosher salt 
2 tablespoon clarified butter 
1 1/2 teaspoons yellow or brown mustard seeds 
3 cups (450g about 3 large ears) fresh corn kernels 
1/2 cup (60g) roasted peanuts 
1 cup (30g) chopped cilantro 
lemon or lime wedges 
2 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds 
1. In a mortar and pestle, or with a mini food processor, grind the chiles, garlic, ginger, turmeric, and salt to a paste. 
2. Heat the clarified butter in a wide skillet. Add the mustard seeds and cook, stirring until they pop, which will take a minute or two. Stir in the corn kernels and cook a few minutes, stirring frequently, until they just start to feel tender, which will take a couple of minutes. 
3. Stir in the peanuts, half of the cilantro and half of the red chile paste. Cook for another minute then taste. If desired, for additional heat, add more of the chile paste and perhaps a bit of salt. Remove from heat and add a squeeze of lemon or lime juice. 
Serve the spiced corn over rice, or as a side dish, topped with the remaining cilantro and sesame seeds. (It might be nice to serve some cooling raita with it, too.) Have lemon or lime wedges handy for guests to add as they wish. Any leftovers can be reheated in a skillet with a little more clarified butter. 
Note: If you have leftover red chile paste, I used mine to make a quick salsa by adding a dab to a small bowl of halved cherry tomatoes, adding a little extra salt, cilantro, oil, and a squeeze of lime juice. It got served it atop grilled fish, although would be good with any grilled meat or as lively side dish with something else. 

Related Recipes 

Fresh Corn Cakes 

Corn Soup 

Fresh Corn, Tomato, Avocado and Basil Salad 

Orange-Glazed Polenta Cake 

Pin 
518 
Share 
837 
Tweet 
+1 
1 
SHARES 1K 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Baked Apricot Bars 

Salted Butter Caramels 

Manhattans 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: chile chili cilantro clarified butter corn ghee Habanero Heidi Swanson Indian Indian Spiced Corn jalapeno Near & Far peanuts rice vegetarian 




START RECIPE

Fresh Corn, Tomato, Avocado and Basil Salad 
70 comments - 08.20.2015 
Fresh corn, tomato, avocado and basil saladSave 

While in the states for a vacation this summer, I took advantage of the overload of gorgeous heirloom tomatoes, fresh ears of corn, and generous bunches of basil at the farmers’ markets to make this salad over and over (and over and over) again. Romain agreed with me that we could eat this every day. And I think we did! 

Fresh corn, tomato, avocado and basil saladSave 

This salad doesn’t have a lot of ingredients – it simply showcases the best of the season. So it works best when everything is at their best, during the height of the season. Basil is great with the corn and tomatoes, and my friend Nick Malgieri supplied me with several bunches from his backyard garden which I kept in a small vase of water at room temperature, which is my favorite way to keep basil fresh. 

Fresh corn, tomato, avocado and basil saladSave 

In addition to my gifted basil, the tables at the greenmarkets in New York were loaded with beautiful tomatoes, all sorts of varieties, ripe for the picking. I added an avocado to the mix, which tends to add a little richness, and you can certainly vary the ingredients to your liking. Just before the recipe I’ve included some ideas in case you want to take the salad in other directions. 

Fresh corn, tomato, avocado and basil saladSave 

We took the salad to the beach, where it made great fare when picnicking on the sand. Once dressed, you can eat it right away, although it keeps well for a few hours afterward, too. For dinner, we’d have it by itself, sometimes with hard-cooked eggs and goat cheese crumbled over the top, and other times, alongside grilled chicken or fish. In fact, I can’t think of anything it doesn’t go with. It’s my favorite way of celebrating the best of summer – all in one bowl! 

Fresh corn, tomato, avocado and basil saladSave 

Fresh Corn, Tomato, Avocado and Basil Salad 
Four to six side salads 
You can add other things to what I’ve suggested here: Raw peppers (sweet or hot), roasted peppers, scallions or diced red onion, or swap out another herb for the basil, such as flat leaf parsley, tarragon, dill, chives, or oregano, to taste. Coarsely chopped pitted olives would work well, either green or black, as does crumbled feta cheese or cubes of fried halloumi.If you want to make it a main course, bite-sized pieces of cooked chicken, crumbled bacon, shrimp, peeled hard-cooked eggs, or smoked tofu could be added. If you’ve got it, lobster or crab meat would be amazing.Although it’s not often discussed, one of the secrets to a good salad, especially one that has just a few ingredients, it a good extra-virgin olive oil. The country of origin, and the price, aren’t always indicators of good-quality. In the U.S., California Olive Ranch produces reliably good oil, as does Fairway in New York. A well-respected friend in the food business swears by the Greek olive oil at Trader Joe’s, and Costco’s Kirkland olive oil gets high marks from fans, too. As always, though, buy what tastes best to you.Update: A few people have inquired whether the corn is cooked or not, and it isn’t in this salad. Fresh, sweet corn is excellent raw. However if you do want to use cooked corn, I suggest grilling it, shucked and lightly oiled first, cooking it over a fire for 10-15 minutes, turning it infrequently to give it a bit of char so it has some texture, as well as additional flavor. 
2-3 ears of fresh corn 
2 cups (350g) cherry tomatoes (or 2 cups fresh tomatoes, diced) 
1 ripe avocado 
1/2 cucumber, peeled and seeded 
1 cup (75g) loosely packed chopped fresh basil (reserve any small leaves for garnish) 
Freshly ground black pepper 
Vinaigrette 
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 
4 teaspoons Dijon mustard 
1-2 small shallots, peeled and minced (1-2 tablespoons) 
1 teaspoon sea or kosher salt 
6 tablespoons (90ml) extra-virgin olive oil 
1. Shuck the corn and remove it from the cob. (Technique here.) 
2. Remove any stems and slice the cherry tomatoes in half. 
3. Peel the avocado, remove the pit, and dice the flesh. Cut the cucumber into similar sized cubes. 
4. Put the corn kernels, tomatoes, avocado, cucumber, and basil into a serving bowl and season with freshly ground black pepper. 
5. In a small bowl, whisk together the vinegar, mustard, shallots, salt, and olive oil. Pour the vinaigrette dressing over the salad and gently mix together. Taste, and add more salt and pepper if necessary. 
Serving and storage: The dressed salad can be served right away or in a few hours. (It can be stored in the refrigerator or at room temperature, but should be served room temperature.) It’s best the same day it’s made. 

Note: Fresh corn can be tricky to find in Paris. It’s sometimes available at outdoor markets, especially those that carry local or organic produce, such as Batignolles and Raspail, or larger markets such as the one at the Bastille and Avenue President Wilson. Chinese produce markets, especially those in the 13th, often carry fresh corn in the summer too. 

Related Recipes 

Fresh Corn Cakes 

Roasted Tomato Soup with Corn Salsa 

Fresh Corn Soup 

Pesto 

Pin 
11K 
Share 
194 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 11K 
 
never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Basil Vinaigrette 

Pesto Recipe 

Cobb Salad 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: basil corn cucumber Dijon mustard fresh corn Herbs olive oil recipe salad salt tomato tomatoes vinegar 




START RECIPE

Grilled Deviled Chicken 
33 comments - 08.18.2015 
Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

Being stateside in preparation for les vacances (vacation), I thought I’d corral Elizabeth Karmel, who I’d had dinner with last spring when we did a special cooking event together, into grilling dinner for me. I know, it was a little forward, but Elizabeth was the chef/consultation to Hill Country Barbecue in Manhattan, which has the distinct honor of pleasing even true, hard-core bbq aficianados. She’s also written a couple of books on grilling, something I thought I knew a little about, but found out there was more to know during a warm summer evening in New York. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 
 
Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

Perhaps because I’m from California, my idea of grilling is to marinate something, then slapping it on the grill, turning it once, until it’s done on both sides. When she ed what I wanted to make with her, she sent me the French Chicken recipe from her book Taming the Flame, which she said she based on Julia Child’s Poulet grillé au diable, the diable (devil) referring to a hint of spice, and a lot of lively French Dijon mustard in the sauce. 

In addition to this recipe, the book is a very comprehensive guide to grilling and barbecuing, full of information, techniques and best of all, a collection of terrific recipes that will have you looking at your grill in a whole new way. Not only is Elizabeth one of the “most important” bbq’ers in America, she was also a French major in college. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

(Another French connection: Some say that the word “barbecue” comes from the French barbe à queue, or “whiskers to tail,” which refers to whole animal cooking, although others say that’s folk etymology.) 

Unlike my usual “slap it on the grill” technique, this deviled chicken is cooked over indirect heat, basted frequently with the thick, flavorful sauce, then topped with chapelure (breadcrumbs). When Elizabeth first shared the recipe with me, I suggested that is would be better is marinaded overnight in the sauce. She replied, “Oh, that’s not necessary. The sauce is so flavorful that you don’t need to.” And she was right. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

Elizabeth, who hails from North Carolina, kept telling me about “indirect heat,” and I didn’t get what she was talking about because I was used to going for the char, and speed, whereas some grilling techniques involve low-and-slow cooking, at a more relaxed pace than this Yankee is used to. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

I’d met Elizabeth years ago at a culinary conference and she gave me a silicone basting and grilling brush that she had developed. Being someone who is wary of gimmicks and gadgets, I put it away in a drawer and didn’t pick it up until years later, when I was tired of picking out errant bristles from brushing the tops of pie dough with egg wash, which if I didn’t find and remove, would prompt guests to suggest that I wear a hair net next time that I cooked for them. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

Add to that, all my brushes smelled vaguely (or strongly) of garlic since even though I’d label them “PASTRY ONLY” in dark, block letters, some people (who shall remain nameless…) would ignore that. Another plus is that silicone brushes can go right in the dishwasher, which would take care of most of those offending odors. Although it’s always better to keep ones reserved for pastry, and suggest that if anyone used them for anything else, punishment would be swift and merciless. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

During a group dinner we both attended in New York last spring, stumbling over my words, I confessed that I was skeptical about silicone brushes, but hers had won me over. It was something I was waiting years to get off my chest, and she laughed, waving my silly objections (and apologies) away, and we had a grand time that evening. 

So I felt a-ok ing her to give me a grilling lesson because I never want to pass an opportunity to learn something from an expert. And a bonus I discovered: She is one of the few people I’ve cooked with who’s just as persnickety about cross-contamination as I am. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

For the Poulet grillé à la diable, her original recipe called for two whole chickens. As someone who lives in France, but writes for Americans (and others), I always have to remember that French portions are different than American ones. While a French person might be content with a chicken leg or a wing for dinner, in the U.S., most recipe writers figure ½-chicken per person is the right portion for a recipe. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

Since they’re easily available, and tasty, I decided it’d be nice with chicken thighs, which might cook more evenly – and yup, speedier – on the grill. After I plied Elizabeth with a gin & tonic – the first of several, she got to work firing up the grill and laying the thighs not over the highest heat part of the grill, or the flame, but down the center, where that elusive indirect heat is. 

We used a Weber Q grill, which is small enough for a New York apartment balcony, and it was a convenient gas model, which could be fired up in a New York minute. (Elizabeth says that she’s done side-by-side taste tests with people, and almost everyone couldn’t tell the difference between food cooked over a gas versus a charcoal grill.) If you have a charcoal grill, move the hot stuff off to the side and find a place over indirect heat to make these thighs. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

Elizabeth showed me that slowing down the cooking, and basting with the mustardy sauce was the way to get it well-seasoned without the usual blitz-charring that I do. Being a renegade, I had suggested grilling some broccoli raab or broccolini to go alongside because I try to eat as many stewing greens as possible when I’m in the states (after tasting this, Romain is beside himself because we don’t get this kind of broccoli raab, or broccolini, in Paris), which was something she had never done – proving that even the experts are open to learning something. 

I was predisposed to precooking it a bit, but we tried it throwing it on the grill, raw, tossed in some olive oil with some salt and pepper first – and it was pretty chewy. Elizabeth liked it, but I’m not a fan of toothy greens so the next time I made it, I steamed the greens for a few minutes first, then tossed them with a small amount of olive oil and chopped garlic, and grilled it until it was slightly charred, which made an excellent accompaniment. 

Deviled Grilled ChickenSave 

All in all, the meal with a big success. We had a grand time cooking together, I got a little lesson in grilling from an expert, and afterward, we sat down a nice dinner, toasting ourselves over a Franco-American alliance of cooking technique, and flavors. 

Grilled Deviled Chicken 
Four to six servings 
Adapted from Taming the Flame by Elizabeth KarmelAs mentioned, per person portion sizes can vary. I found one chicken thigh sufficient per person, served as part of a meal with other things on the plate, such as vegetables or potatoes. We used a compact grill, but if your grill is larger, or you want to serve more people, feel free to double the recipe. If you want to make it without the wine or vermouth, use a mix of lemon juice and water.Elizabeth noted that this works fine with boneless, skinless chicken breasts, but to be aware that they will cook faster than thighs. You can also use it with a whole chicken. If so, you’ll want to butterfly the chicken, removing the backbone, cracking the breastbone, then opening the chicken up (like a book) so it lies flat. Tuck the wing tips under the wings, so they don’t burn. She advises grilling the chicken skin side up for 20 minutes, turn the chicken, and spread some of the sauce on the chicken. Grill for 10 more minutes, then turn the chicken over so it is breast side up again, and grill for 5 more minutes, basting with more sauce. Sprinkle the chicken with the crumbs and grill it for another 10 to 15 minutes, basting carefully with additional sauce, until done. 
1 tablespoon white wine or vermouth  
2 1/2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
1 1/2 tablespoons melted butter, salted or unsalted 
2 tablespoons olive oil plus additional for coating the chicken 
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme or 1 teaspoon fresh thyme, minced 
Very generous pinch cayenne, red pepper powder, or paprika (sweet or smoked) 
2 small scallions, chopped 
8 bone-in, skinless chicken thighs (about 2 pounds, 1kg) 
1/4 cup (20g) toasted breadcrumbs panko, or cracker crumbs 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1. Heat the grill to about 375ºF (190ºC), if your grill has a thermometer. If not, get it moderately hot, but remember that this cooks best over medium, indirect heat. 
2. In a small bowl, whisk the white wine and mustard together. Slowly drizzle the butter and olive oil into the mustard mixture, whisking constantly. Add the thyme, cayenne and scallions. Set aside. 
3. Toss the chicken thighs in a bowl with a good drizzle of olive oil and salt and pepper. 
4. Without unrolling or flattening the thighs, set them on a grill, bone side down over indirect heat, not over a direct flame. Lower the cover of the grill and let cook, checking frequently, until the tops of the thighs go from being raw to changing color with the exterior looking cooked. The inside will still be undercooked, and they will have shrunk by about one-third. They should take about 15 minutes to reach this point. The bottom may be nice and crispy. If they get too dark, slip a sheet of aluminum foil under them. 
5. Start basting the chicken frequently with the sauce, closing the cover, then lifting it a few minutes later to baste them again. Continue cooking, and basting a bit, until the thighs are cooked through, which will be between 15 and 20 more minutes depending on the temperature of the grill. 
6. About ten minutes before the thighs are finished, sprinkle the tops with breadcrumbs and keep basting; avoid disturbing the crumb crust and dribble the sauce over the crumbs, rather than brushing. The thighs are done when you poke a paring knife into one and the chicken is cooked close to the bone or an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part registers at least 165ºF/75ºC. Remove from the grill and serve. 
Do-Ahead: Like most grilled food, this is best served hot off the grill. You can make the sauce the same day you plan to grill the chicken. 

Pin  
35 
Share 
20 
Tweet 
+1 
SHARES 55 

never miss a post! 
 get posts and recipes 
 get my monthly newsletter 
SIGN UP 

Your email here 
you might also like 

Chermoula 

Simplest Beef Curry 

Fresh Corn Soup 
categories: Recipes Savory Dishes 

tags: broccoli raab broccolini butter chicken deviled Dijon mustard Elizabeth Karmel grill grilling Julia Child moutarde mustard olive oil paprika poulet recipe scallions thighs vermouth white wine 

START RECIPE

BLUEBERRY & KEY LIMES TEA CAKES - GOING BACK TO THE ESSENTIALS 
August 22, 2012 
Blueberry Key Lime Tea Cakes 

It's been a week clearly balanced with working and nesting. I am heading out of town next week again to shoot Le Cordon Bleu cookbook and have been spending a good portion of my free time baking, cooking, preserving, etc.. I clearly manifested an intense homemaking phase which I believe to be only normal since I am incessantly on the go this summer. 

Blueberries 

I feel I won't be touching ground for a while and spending time in the kitchen, mixing, kneading, chopping, gives me time to think, make plans, draw list, organize thoughts and priorities. Some good music in the background and the undivided attention of the pups and I spent a couple of days stocking the fridge and freezer with some good meals and treats for Bill to enjoy while I'm away. 

Baking 

I like to believe a sweet treat once in a while makes the distance a little more bearable (and thank you Skype inventor!). He also gets invited left and right everytime I go away, no matter how stocked up the fridge is. His parents, the neighbors, our close friends...They all seem to take pity on him! At least, I know he never arrives empty handed to a dinner... 

Blueberry Key Lime Tea Cakes 

These little tea cakes may be the most simple things to bake but there is value in the essentials, the basics. I know that I can freeze plenty for us to have one morning over brunch, to keep in the fridge for a little four o'clock pick me up with a cup of tea. I can pack a couple in his bag before he heads to work in the morning. They are full of good nutrients, blueberries, coconut sugar, whole grains and the addition of Key limes provides just the right amount of pop from the limes. 

Nothing like a good basic tea cake fresh out of the oven to make you feel like the chaos around you can indeed slow down...even if only for a few minutes.  

Blueberry Key Lime Tea Cakes 

Blueberry Key Lime Tea Cakes: 

Makes 24 muffin size tea cakes. 

Ingredients: 
2 cups Jeanne's gluten free flour mix (or cake flour) 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup whole milk 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
zest and juice of 6 Key limes (or 1 lime) 
1 cup (2 sticks - 8 oz) unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1 cups coconut sugar (or brown sugar) 
4 large eggs 
2 cups blueberries 

Directions;  
Preheat the oven to 350F and line the inside of 24 muffin cups with cupcake or muffin liners. Grease with some melted butter or cooking spray. Set aside. 
In a large bowl, combine the flour, baking powder and salt. Reserve. 
In another large bowl or container, combine the milk, vanilla extracts, zest and juice from the Key limes (the milk will curdle but do not worry - it's normal). 
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, mix the butter and coconut sugar until smooth and creamy (medium high for about 3 minutes). Beat in the eggs, on slow speed, one at a time until everything looks well combined. The mixture won't be smooth but make sure all the eggs look mixed in. 
On low speed, beat in the flour mixture alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions, just until the batter comes together. Fold in blueberries with a spatula and give the batter another 10-12 strokes to finish mixing it all together. Divide the batter equally among the muffin tins.
Bake for about 25 minutes or until a knife inserted near the center comes out free of raw batter. 
  



START RECIPE

APPLE CINNAMON DOUGHNUTS 
January 27, 2012 
Apple Doughnuts 

Soft, fragrant, pillowy morsels of dough encasing a cinnamon scented ring of apple goodness. Apple Cinnamon Doughnuts. These will make you turn into the worst poet. Granted. But oh sweetness, they are worth losing a rhyme or two over. 

Forgive me if it sounds like my mind has been lost to a wonderful piece of apple cinnamon doughnut. Truth be told, I have had much less than my usual four hours of sleep these past few days and well, it does not bode well for articulated posts and inspiring poetry. 

Lady Apples 

It does however create the perfect occasion to head to the kitchen for a cup of hot cocoa and a couple of piping hot apple doughnuts rolled into cinnamon sugar. Comforting warm doughnuts to cover up a mid afternoon slump of my eyelids on the keyboard. That, and a hug from my mother and I am good to go for another 8 hours. 

It's fun and strange to have my parents visit while B. and I are both busy with work and life but we do find some time to cook and hang out or listen to some jazz by going to see my husband play with his band. I always have a super soft spot seeing my mother beaming with pride when her son-in-law grabs his trombone and start playing her favorite tune. 

Apple Doughnuts 

What's that got to do with apple doughnuts? Nothing and a lot. All sorts of fuzzies in the heart. A huge sense of now becoming the adult I knew I could be in the eyes of my parents. The simple fact of spending an entire day on a shoot and coming home to warm Bonjour! Comment ca c'est passé la journée? (Hello! How did your day go) in a language I now only hear when I call home. 

The simplicity of making dough and letting it rise. Taking the time to have a cup of tea with my parents while we make plan for the next day and my head is nothing but a vast juggling act of lists and deadlines.  

Eggs 

These apple doughnuts are so good we have deemed them inhalable. If you need a fix, just hover over a plate of these and the world will instantly slow down and be kinder to you. If I had thought this through a little bit better, I would have made a batch and parked in the freezer. There will be some much needed inhalably inhalable moments in the next few days. And I fear less recipes to be posted. Trust me I'll be cooking though! 

I am putting the whole family in the car for a drive to Birmingham, Alabama where I am speaking at Food Blog South. There won't be much time for sight seeing but I am honored they ed me to speak on a panel and would not miss this for the world (great chance to catch up with close blogging friends too). We have to head back here right after my session on Saturday so I have Sunday to prep for work. 

Apple Doughnuts 

I am thrilled to be photographing the cookbook Marmalade by Elizabeth Field (Running Press) all through next week! You should have seen my parents eyes lit up when I showed them the shot list and recipe list! Seven cases of marmalade of all sorts arrived at the house last week to be photographed as they are as well as used in savory and sweet recipes. 

Although I fear there won't be any recipe post, I will do my best to give you a lay out and various views of how a book shoot shapes up and takes place. I can't wait to get going. I am still ing some ideas for certain shots but that's just part of the excitement! Already went through the production part with kitchen assistants and now I am just picking out props, linens and surfaces for the shoot. 

If only I could let my mind rest for a minute before Monday that we start and I will be golden!  

Maybe I need a couple more apple doughnuts.... 

Apple Doughnuts, inspired from Epicurious: 

Makes 12 small ones or 6 large ones 

Notes: for this recipe, I made one batch with all purpose flour and another batch with a gluten free flour mix and we literally loved both. The original recipe called for 6 slices whole Granny Smith apple (not cored or peeled) but I used 12 slices of tiny Lady Apples I had. They were the perfect size for a small treat while packing a ton of flavor. I don't deep fry but I use a deep cast iron skillet and it works perfectly 

Ingredients: 
2 teaspoons active dry yeast 
1.5 tablespoons lukewarm water 
1/2 cup (125ml) lukewarm milk 
2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
50g unsalted butter, melted 
2 1/4 cups (335g) Jeanne's gluten free mix (or same amount all purpose flour)  
2 eggs 
juice of one lemon 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
12 slices mini Lady Apples 
canola oil for frying 

Directions: 
Place the yeast, water, milk and 1 tablespoon of the sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer and set aside in a warm place for about 10 minutes or until the surface is frothy and bubbling. 
Add the butter, flour, eggs and another tablespoon sugar to the yeast and use the paddle attachment to mix until you get a sticky dough.  
Dump the dough onto a lightly floured surface and need for a minute. Oil the inside of a large bowl with a little vegetable or canola oil (with pastry brush or paper towel), cover with plastic wrap and set aside in a warm place, free from drafts until the dough has doubled in size. 

Place the remaining sugar, lemon juice, cinnamon and apple slices in a large bowl and toss the apple to coat them well. 
Knead the dough on a lightly floured surface for about 5 minutes. Divide the dough in half and roll each to about 1/4 -inch thick. Using a 3-inch cookie cutter, cut rounds of dough throughout. Place one apple slice in the middle of one. Place on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paperand set to the side. 
Roll out the other half of the dough and proceed to cut same amount of rounds from that one. Top each apple slice with a piece of dough (from second batch) and pinch the edges to seal tight. Cut a small hole through the middle with another small cookie cutter (found that bottle tops are the perfect size). 
Leave the doughnuts on the cookie sheet until they rise again for another 30 minutes. 
Heat up the oil to 350F and fry in small batches for about 1 to 2 minutes per side. Drain on paper towels. Dust with some sugar mixed with a pinch of cinnamon and eat fast...! 


START RECIPE

STEAMED MUSSELS & A BUTTERMILK FRANGIPANE CAKE 
January 5, 2012 
Steamed Mussels With White Wine & Key Limes 

I hope that everyone had a great holiday break and celebrated the New Year as they wished. Quietly or with lots of fireworks and revelers. I don't know about you but even if I don't make resolutions I truly enjoy this feeling of starting clean that comes with January. Twelve new months, yours for the taking. Yours to create, get inspired, start, accomplish...There is something exhilarating about the new year.  

Personally, it gives me an even greater wish to leap, with all my fears at times, or without any at others. It also fills me with the desire to reset the clocks, just like we do with a new calendar. Internal clocks, personal clocks, work clocks. Setting priorities and goals. Making inspiration and mood boards.  

Beach  

It's been good to dive back into creating recipes, writing the stories around them and thinking about their photographs. There are lots of fun blog projects in the planning. In the middle if all these happy new year moments, my family suffered another great loss yesterday. Once again, without my family being close enough to hug and comfort, I turned to the only things I knew to do at the time. Clearing my head, getting inspired and cooking. 

Beach  

Anchoring feeling of loss to the present, to tangible things I could do and explain, I took my camera and headed to the beach. I observed quietly. My fingers got numb gripping my camera straps so hard. But the colors, the quiet empty beach before me...blues, grays, reds... They put my mind at ease. The waves crashing at my feet truly reminded me that life is it. It's full if we make it so. It's not perfect because we make it so. There is life inspired in everything. 

Beach 

On my way home, I stopped at the fish stands at the end of island and got a bag of fresh mussels. My comfort food. It was close to lunch time. Convenient to start cooking. Like most of us, beside being a necessary act of survival, food is also part of our story. My food stories involve every member of my family. They include many friends. They are full of laughters, jokes, pranks, animated discussion, etc... They are full of life. 

Fangipane Cake  

Deeply aware that every part of me was now bursting with energy and inspiration, I cooked and photographed. I found my rhythm in the things I knew to be my constant. After a much needed break over the holidays it felt good to be back in it. Normalcy coming back little by little. 

Key Limes 

Steamed mussels are pretty much my go-to super fast dinner or lunch. They really take very little time and are super flavorful when cooked with some white wine, garlic and parsley and finished off with a spritz of lime juice for example. Ok, they are a bit messy but that little imperfection is part of their charm. Just like the beaten up Key limes I got at the store (in the reject box where overdue fruits are sold for pennies to the pound). I am founding imperfection really soothing lately. 

Frangipane Cake 

The cake was an experiment that did not turn out the way I hoped for but which did not take away any of the wonderful taste or aroma. I had made a small galette des Rois over the weekend and had a half quantity of frangipane left. I layered it with the cake batter and swirled it, hoping it would create a nice design when cut through. I apparently did not swirl hard enough. Imperfect result. Perfect taste. Paired with a cold glass of milk and I suddenly felt my entire body relax. 

As cliche as it may sound, food truly has magical powers. Well...cake does...! 

I truly wish you the happiest of New Years. Live fully. Play hard. Leap and take chances. Tiny or big. Do what makes you truly happy.  

Fangipane Cake  

Steamed Mussels: 
1 pound fresh mussels 
1 cup of white wine 
1/3 cup seafood stock (or water) 
2 cloves of garlic, minced 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 
lime or lemon juice (I used a Key lime) 

Clean the mussels by scrubbing them under cold water and remove the little fuzzy beard that hangs on some of them.  
Place a large skillet over medium heat and add the white wine, stock and garlic. Bring to a strong simmer, add the mussels all at once. Cover the pan with a lid (or if you are like me, lid-less, another skillet of the same dimension). Let the mussels cook 6 to 8 minutes. Thrown in the parsley, toss with the mussels. Discard any that did not open and serve immediately with some of the an juices and a spritz of lime or lemon. 

Buttermilk & Frangipane Cake: 

Makes two 8-inch loaves 

Ingredients: 
1/2 cup (125ml) buttermilk 
1/2 cup (125ml) sour cream 
1/2 cup (100gr) sugar 
2 eggs 
1/2 cup (125ml) olive oil 
zest and juice of one lemon 
2 cups (280gr) Jeanne's gluten free all purpose flour mix (or 2 cups regular flour) 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 portion frangipane filling (recipe follows) 

Directions:  
Preheat the oven to 350F. Position a tray in the middle. Grease two loaf pan and line the bottom with parchment paper. Place the pans on a baking sheet. Set aside. 
In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the buttermilk, sour cream, sugar and eggs until pale (takes about 2 minutes). Add the oil and lemon juice and zest and mix until well blended. Add the flour mix and baking powder and whisk about 50 strokes until the batter is smooth. Divide half the batter in between the two pans. Top each pan with the frangipane filling over that first layer. Divide the remainder of the cake batter in between the two pans to cover the frangipane. 
Bake for about 40-45 minutes (on convection) to a hour (regular) until a knife inserted in the middle comes free of raw batter. 



START RECIPE

PECAN BROWN BUTTER CAKES & A ROASTED VEGETABLE SALAD 
November 15, 2011 
Hazelnut cakes 

Let me start this post by giving you some heads up, sort of housekeeping news if you will. The workshop that Clare and I are holding in May 2012 is indeed sold out. There is a waitlist so feel free to send us an email to get on it if you wish. You never know...We are also planning more workshops like this in the future so stay tuned! 

The good news is that if you live in Charleston and surrounding areas, I will be holding a One Day Food Photography Workshop at Heirloom Book Company downtown on December 10th from 10am til 5pm. Click here for all the details and to register. Photography, food, styling, book, fun space, and great natural light! 

Pecans 

One of the things I love about Charleston and the area where we live, is waking up to a thick layer of fog over the ocean. It gives me the impression that Winter is settling in. I know better. It means today will actually be warmer than the last. That's ok. I'm not paying attention to those little details anymore. There is Fall and Winter happening in my kitchen, regardless of my shorts and flip flop attire. 

Every morning that I take the pups out in the backyard, I bring a little bet and gather the pecans that keep falling during the night. We fought the squirrels long and hard this year but it looks like we won the battle. Well, we did not lose it too bad, I should say. They left us plenty for a few pecan pies, some pecan sandies and the Pecan Brown Butter Cakes pictured here. 

Pecan Brown Butter Cakes 

Fresh from the oven. Toasted the next day. A dab of Nutella. A smidge of lemon curd. With a cup of tea or coffee. We surely did not get enough... That would be partly because of a little incident involving a phone call, a step outside the studio, a puppy and a tray of cakes left at snout level. I can't blame Bailey for not resisting. I almost inhaled three of them as they were cooling down.  

If it is any testament to how good they are, I made two more batches in the last couple of days. And placed them far away from any possible puppy incident. On the same vibe the roasted vegetable I made for lunch the other day almost ended up consumed by my better half alone... 

Savoy Lettuce 

This salad is a riff on the salad that Clare a made many times when I was there last month for work. It is so easy, wonderfully seasonal and super comforting. Yes, comfort. In a salad. With lots of fresh ingredients. That's my idea of comfort right now. Sometimes it's a cup of rich chocolate mousse, a serving of spaghetti carbonara, a bowl of cheese rich onion soup. It depends on what is truly affecting me at the time. 

I have loved these months traveling and staying with friends and bloggers rather than hotels. It gave me the chance to see them in their environment and learn from them. I was never as happy as when they wanted to share their cooking with me and let me in their world, their family traditions, their everyday. I'd rather chill at home with someone sharing their cooking and their story than go out to eat (unless the restaurant does feel like home). 

Beets 

I admit that I get the most satisfaction out of roasting vegetables for soups, salads or simply turning them into easy-do easy-come side dishes. Nothing could be easier than this salad. Roasted golden beets and fennel, a sprinkle of blue cheese, pumpkin seeds and some edamame on top of a bed of greens and Savoy lettuce. I ended up doing a shallot vinaigrette similar to the one Clare made when I was visiting. I sat down and felt a huge sentiment of peace and gratitude. 

We call it Clare's Salad at the house now. Just like we have Tami's Lima Bean Bisque or Heidi's Winter Pasta. Or Elise's Braised Short Ribs.  

Roasted Veggie Salad 

Cooking with friends. Even if only in spirits. And to paraphrase someone we know... it's a good thing.... 

Pecan Brown Butter Cakes: 

Makes 12 

Ingredients: 
1 cup shelled pecans 
4 oz butter (1 stick) 
1 cup buttermilk 
1/2 cup sugar 
2 eggs 
zest one lemon 
2 cups Jeanne's gluten free all purpose flour mix (or regular flour) 
2 teaspoons baking powder 

Directions:  
Preheat the oven to 350F. Position a tray in the middle. Grease bottom of 12 muffin tins and line with wrappers. Set aside. 
Place the pecans on a single baking sheet and toast for about 15 minutes. Let cool. Grind finely in a food processor. Reserve. 
In a medium saucepan set over medium high heat, melt and cook the butter until it turns golden brown and has a nutty scent. Takes about 8-10 minutes. Set aside to cool. (I usually don't strain mine since we like the little dark particles that form when it browns but feel free to do so) 
In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the buttermilk, sugar and eggs until pale (takes about 2 minutes). Add the cooled brow butter and lemon zest and mix until well blended. Add the ground pecans, then the flour mix and baking powder and whisk about 50 strokes until the batter is smooth. 
Pour it into the prepared tins and bake for about 20 to 30 minutes until a knife inserted in the middle comes out clean. 



START RECIPE

PAIN D'EPICES - THE FEELING OF CHRISTMAS 
December 15, 2011 
Pain D'epices  

Every where I look right now, it seems that everyone is hands and elbows deep in Christmas baking, truffle rolling and cookie decorating. I wish I could say the same for our household. Every year, I bake, cook and mix Christmas gifts for friends and family. A dozen boxes packed with homemade goodies to eat (cookies, chocolate, cakes) and to drink (extracts, infused liqueurs, etc...). This year, well...I am feeling already behind.  

By this time in December, I usually have lists of who is getting what, which cookies need to be made and refrigerated, which ingredients need to be marinated and so on. This year? I have zip. So far... No wait! We did put our Christmas tree up yesterday and decorated the house a little. I love how a few twinkling lights and ornaments can instantly brighten one's day. 

Christmas 

On the baking front, however...Not even a couple of cookie doughs parked in the freezer. No egg whites aging for macarons. Only the infused booze is getting better as days go by since I have nothing to do it...I have motivation. I am just oscillating between being overwhelmed with choices and underwhelmed by my decisions. ugh... 

Work has kept me deliciously busy and I am not complaining. I have had the opportunity in the last few weeks and days to shoot for some pretty darn motivated and inspired people. The workshop this past weekend was such a great way to round up all the workshops held so far this year. I was thrilled it was in my town, in a space I really want to support the best I can and with some pretty awesome attendees. You can read more about it on Lauren's blog, Still + Life. 

Pain D'epices  

I guess it doesn't help that my lack of baking is greatly due to the fact that I'm booked on shoots way passed Christmas. I also know that it might me because my mind has been preoccupied with family issues back home. My parents had to cancel their trip to Charleston for the holidays. They need to be home right now and they need every bit of moral support.  

We call and email everyday and are forced to revisit memories and stories. It's bittersweet but it's also very heart warming on the eve of a lot of celebrating and gathering. It's our way of keeping together across the miles. Of course, the conversations turn to food at some point or another. We go down memory lane with holiday meals and treats we shared throughout the years. Came one or fifty, there was always good food going around the table.  

Pain D'epices 

One scent that brings me home everytime, even so far away, is the spice mix used in the traditional pain d'epices. A blend of cinnamon, cardamom, clove, star anise, black pepper, orange and lemon peel. You can find the mix already blended and ground in most good epiceries but it's not that complicated to make yourself. There are as many ways to blend it as there are regions of France.  

While the components are the same, the proportions may vary. What I love about this spice blend is that is lends itself to so many preparations, well beyond Christmas. A little dash in rice pudding. A sprinkle over fish and roasted vegetables. A little bit in a potato gratin...I could go on and on about the versatility of using these spices from sweet to savory.  

Fall 

This week it was waking up to the promise of a little pain d'epices for breakfast was the best therapy. The scent of childhood and story telling time spent listening to my grandfather's stories for hours. The texture of velvety Christmas morning spent playing quietly in our room with the presents Santa had brought that night. All wrapped up within the smooth spiced sugar coating the pain d'epices.  

Every morning it connected me to my loved ones a little. That scent evokes my family, the time spent together baking and getting goodie packages together. It reminded me that beyond what I was feeling or how busy I'd be until Christmas day, that there were good reasons to push through and get my baking lists pinned down and to get to it. One specifically: making people happy. 

Pain D'epices  

What are your favorite treats to give throughout the holiday season? Please, share a recipe if you have one! 

Pain D'Epices:adapted from Saveurs France, December 2011. 

Makes 12 mini cakes 

Ingredients: 
For the spice mix: 
equal parts in ounces or grams (I usually go by 30 grams of each & refrigerate) 
cinnamon 
cardamom 
clove 
star anise 
black peppercorns 
dried lemon peel 
dried orange peel 

Place the cinnamon, cardamom seeds and the rest of the ingredients in a coffee grinder and process until finely ground. 

For the cakes: 
1/2 cup honey 
1/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
3/4 cup milk 
1 cup Jeanne's gluten free all purpose flour mix or regular flour 
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon spice mix for Pain d'epices 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, kept cold 
1 large egg 

Sugar coating: 
equal parts sugar and equals spice mix stirred together well.  

Directions: 
Preheat the oven to 350F and position a rack in the middle. Butter 12 mini bundt cake pans or other of your choice. 
In a small saucepan set over medium heat, stir together the honey, dark brown sugar and milk until the sugar is dissolved. Remove from the heat and reserve. 
In a food processor or with a pastry blender, combine the flour, baking powder, spice mix, and unsalted butter until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs.  
Whisk the egg into the cooled milk mixture and add it to the flour mix. Pulse a couple of times until the mixture is smooth. Divide the batter evenly among the prepared molds and coo 20 to 25 minutes or until a knife inserted in the middle comes out free of crumbs. Let the cakes cool completely before rolling them in the sugar coating. 




START RECIPE

PECAN BROWN BUTTER CAKES & A ROASTED VEGETABLE SALAD 
November 15, 2011 
Hazelnut cakes 

Let me start this post by giving you some heads up, sort of housekeeping news if you will. The workshop that Clare and I are holding in May 2012 is indeed sold out. There is a waitlist so feel free to send us an email to get on it if you wish. You never know...We are also planning more workshops like this in the future so stay tuned! 

The good news is that if you live in Charleston and surrounding areas, I will be holding a One Day Food Photography Workshop at Heirloom Book Company downtown on December 10th from 10am til 5pm. Click here for all the details and to register. Photography, food, styling, book, fun space, and great natural light! 

Pecans 

One of the things I love about Charleston and the area where we live, is waking up to a thick layer of fog over the ocean. It gives me the impression that Winter is settling in. I know better. It means today will actually be warmer than the last. That's ok. I'm not paying attention to those little details anymore. There is Fall and Winter happening in my kitchen, regardless of my shorts and flip flop attire. 

Every morning that I take the pups out in the backyard, I bring a little bet and gather the pecans that keep falling during the night. We fought the squirrels long and hard this year but it looks like we won the battle. Well, we did not lose it too bad, I should say. They left us plenty for a few pecan pies, some pecan sandies and the Pecan Brown Butter Cakes pictured here. 

Pecan Brown Butter Cakes 

Fresh from the oven. Toasted the next day. A dab of Nutella. A smidge of lemon curd. With a cup of tea or coffee. We surely did not get enough... That would be partly because of a little incident involving a phone call, a step outside the studio, a puppy and a tray of cakes left at snout level. I can't blame Bailey for not resisting. I almost inhaled three of them as they were cooling down.  

If it is any testament to how good they are, I made two more batches in the last couple of days. And placed them far away from any possible puppy incident. On the same vibe the roasted vegetable I made for lunch the other day almost ended up consumed by my better half alone... 

Savoy Lettuce 

This salad is a riff on the salad that Clare a made many times when I was there last month for work. It is so easy, wonderfully seasonal and super comforting. Yes, comfort. In a salad. With lots of fresh ingredients. That's my idea of comfort right now. Sometimes it's a cup of rich chocolate mousse, a serving of spaghetti carbonara, a bowl of cheese rich onion soup. It depends on what is truly affecting me at the time. 

I have loved these months traveling and staying with friends and bloggers rather than hotels. It gave me the chance to see them in their environment and learn from them. I was never as happy as when they wanted to share their cooking with me and let me in their world, their family traditions, their everyday. I'd rather chill at home with someone sharing their cooking and their story than go out to eat (unless the restaurant does feel like home).  

Beets 

I admit that I get the most satisfaction out of roasting vegetables for soups, salads or simply turning them into easy-do easy-come side dishes. Nothing could be easier than this salad. Roasted golden beets and fennel, a sprinkle of blue cheese, pumpkin seeds and some edamame on top of a bed of greens and Savoy lettuce. I ended up doing a shallot vinaigrette similar to the one Clare made when I was visiting. I sat down and felt a huge sentiment of peace and gratitude. 

We call it Clare's Salad at the house now. Just like we have Tami's Lima Bean Bisque or Heidi's Winter Pasta. Or Elise's Braised Short Ribs.  

Roasted Veggie Salad 

Cooking with friends. Even if only in spirits. And to paraphrase someone we know... it's a good thing.... 

Pecan Brown Butter Cakes: 

Makes 12 

Ingredients: 
1 cup shelled pecans 
4 oz butter (1 stick) 
1 cup buttermilk 
1/2 cup sugar 
2 eggs 
zest one lemon 
2 cups Jeanne's gluten free all purpose flour mix (or regular flour) 
2 teaspoons baking powder 

Directions: 
Preheat the oven to 350F. Position a tray in the middle. Grease bottom of 12 muffin tins and line with wrappers. Set aside. 
Place the pecans on a single baking sheet and toast for about 15 minutes. Let cool. Grind finely in a food processor. Reserve. 
In a medium saucepan set over medium high heat, melt and cook the butter until it turns golden brown and has a nutty scent. Takes about 8-10 minutes. Set aside to cool. (I usually don't strain mine since we like the little dark particles that form when it browns but feel free to do so) 
In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the buttermilk, sugar and eggs until pale (takes about 2 minutes). Add the cooled brown butter and lemon zest and mix until well blended. Add the ground pecans, then the flour mix and baking powder and whisk about 50 strokes until the batter is smooth. 
Pour it into the prepared tins and bake for about 20 to 30 minutes until a knife inserted in the middle comes out clean. 




START RECIPE

HAVING FUN WITH CHERRIES! CHERRY CLAFOUTIS, CHERRY PISTACHIO CRUMBLE CAKES & A GRILLED SALMON, FENNEL, RADISH & CHERRIES SALAD 
June 28, 2011  
Clafoutis Aux Cerises 

Cherries... A love story. Cherries are still, along with other stone fruits, one of those once-a-year-come-and-get-it-now foods. In a world where so many foods are available year round, which in by no means give them the attributes of tasty and/or affordable by way, that's something I am madly in love with. I live for seasonal eating. It's better on all counts, starting with the intoxicating flavors and scents of recently picked fruits and vegetables.  

Cherries 

I love the anticipation building up in March waiting for the first weekend we'll go strawberry picking. Waiting for the end of May to bite into the first local peach, juice going down my elbow, its soft skin brushing my cheeks with every bite. Living with blue fingers and tongue all throughout the Summer from blackberry and blueberry picking..and eating...and juicing. With October, I am ready for the local apple crops to flood the farmers maker stalls. 

Clafoutis Aux Cerises 

Comes cherry season and it's far more than just love of seasonal food that is awaken in me. It's a whole part of my history. My childhood. My life in France. Nostalgia is definitely a driving force in who I am as a person and certain foods fall right in that category. Not only do they remind me of wonderful times spent back home but they also define my cooking and baking in the present moment. 

Cherry Pistachio Crumble Cake 

Growing up in Apt, in Provence, we were lucky to have a few cherry trees in the backyard. We had cherry picking parties where friends were invited to lounge under the cherry trees after an afternoon of filling up their bets. When we moved near Aix En Provence, our yard was a food lover's dream come true. Figs, strawberries, raspberries, red currants, apricots and more cherries. 

Cerisiers 
With my brother Arnaud, in Provence. 

The best moments of my childhood were spent in between rosemary bush, a patch of lavender and perched high on a cherry tree. You can safely guess that there is not one family recipe that does not come with a tug at my heart. 

I get the same pinch, tug or pull every time I grabbed the first cherries of the season and make clafoutis. It's like a tradition. Cherries. Clafoutis. Repeat. Except there is rarely enough left for anything else. One for the clafoutis. One for me. Repeat again. This time, granted after overloading at the market, I had enough for clafoutis, a cake or two and a salad. 

Cherry Pistachio Crumble Cake 

One thing I am not used to, even after 14 years here, is the heat. That suffocating heat that grabs your throat and chest. I have learned that the secret to Summer living here resides in three habits: do things at night, do them early in the morning and lastly, do not stop moving. Stopping in that heat will knock the wind from under your sails. So what do we do? We do a bit of all three. We start the work day earlier than normal, do not stop until dinner time and I rarely turn the oven on before 10 or 11pm. 

Grilled Salmon, Cherry, Fennel & Radish Salad 

I am growing slowly enamored with those evening rituals. I let my mind wander and the nostalgia comes wafting in by waves. Small splashes at first with each lemon zested and egg broken and whisked. Huge floods take over once I set out baked goods to cool and the smells vanilla and sugar whipped up with fruits or chocolate take over every nook and crannies of the house. 

Grilled Salmon Salad 

When it comes to lunch or dinners, we are grilling everyday and eating lots of fresh salads loaded with grains and vegetables. One salad I have completely fallen in love with came as an accident. Sort of. I was already inspired to make a version of this fennel, radish, cherry salad from Beatrice at La Tartine Gourmande intrigued by this combination of the three ingredients. 

Grilled Salmon, Cherry, Fennel & Radish Salad 

Some leftover grilled salmon one day prompted me to add this to the fennel, radish and cherry combination. A little lemon juice, olive oil and oregano and we were in for the best salad we've had in a long time. Bill ed for seconds. That's rare at lunchtime. He ed for leftovers the day after. We were about to fight over it when I said there's cherry cake for dessert!. 

Clafoutis Aux Cerises 

But not just cherry cake.... Warm and light vanilla cake loaded with cherries and a pistachio crumble topping. We took advantage of an impeding storm to head out to the yard and enjoy a few short minutes of a cool breeze passing by. Under the pecan tree this time. Hope you enjoy the cherry recipes after the jump! Someone needs to hold me back...I am slightly nervous that there is no clafoutis for dessert tonight! Ahaha! Have a great week everyone! 

Cherry Clafoutis: 
It's like Summer does not officially start unless there is a clafoutis involved. The recipe originated with my grandmother and years after her passing, it's my way to pay homage to her ways around the kitchen. And was she a fine cook. And a loving one too. There was never one of anything. Probably why she had six children too. Ah!
Serves 6 to 8 

Ingredients: 
1 to 1 1/2 cups cherries, pitted 
4 eggs 
1/3 cup honey 
1/2 cup whole milk 
1/2 cup heavy cream 
1/4 cup gluten free flour of your choice(I used red rice flour but you can use all purpose) 
powdered sugar (optional) 

Instructions: 
Preheat the oven to 350F and position a rack in the middle. Place all the cherries in a 8-inch round pie tin slightly coated with some melted butter (or cooking spray if you wish). 
In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs and honey until well combined. Add the milk, cream and flour and whisk until smooth. Slowly pour over the cherries, trying not to disturb them too much so to speak. Bake for 30-40 minutes until golden brown. 
Serve at room temperature with some powdered sugar dusted on top if desired. 

Cherry Cakes With Pistachio Crumble Topping: 

Makes one 10-inch cake or four 4-inch ones. 

Ingredients: 
For the crumble topping: 
5 tablespoons cold butter 
1/4 cup sugar 
1/4 cup brown sugar, packed 
1/3 cup millet flour (or all purpose) 
1/3 cup pistachios, dry roasted, unsalted, chopped 
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 

For the cake(s): 
1 cup millet flour 
1 cup superfine rice flour 
1 cup sorghum flour 
(or use 2 cups all purpose flour instead of the three flours listed above) 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
2/3 cup sugar 
zest of one lemon 
6 tablespoons butter, at room temperature 
2 eggs 
1 cup whole milk (I sometimes used coconut milk) 
1 1/2 cups cherries, pitted and halved 

Instructions: 
For the crumble: 
Put all the ingredients, minus the nuts in a food processor and pulse until it forms coarse crumbs. Put into a bowl, sit in the nuts , cover and refrigerate while you prepare the cake. You can do this by hand, mixing in all the ingredients together, just make sure the butter is super cold. 

Preheat the oven to 350F and position a rack in the middle. 

For the cake(s): 
Combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda. Stir and set aside. 
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, mix the butter and sugar together with the lemon zest until creamy looking. Add the eggs, one at time. Scrape the bottom of the bowl to make sure it is all combined. Reduce the speed and add the the flour mixture and milk alternately, starting and ending with the dry ingredients. Stop the machine and with a spatula gently stir in the cherries. 
Pour the mixture into your preferred baking pan, coated with cooking spray. Spread the top with the crumb topping. 
Bake for about 45 minutes for one single 8 or 9-inch cake and about 30-35 for smaller ones. 

Grilled Salmon, fennel, radish and cherry salad: 

This is more of a method/ingredient list than a precise recipes since quantities change with what I have on hand and according to our tastebuds that day. Feel free to experiment with little of a lot of each ingredient! 

Makes enough for 4 people: 

Ingredients:  
1 to 2 cups arugula 
1 small fennel bulb, fronds removed and thinly sliced 
6 radishes, thinly sliced (about 1 cup) 
1 cup cherries, pitted 
12 oz grilled salmon, flaked 
juice of one lemon 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
salt and pepper 
fresh oregano 

Instructions: 
On four plates, layer the arugula, fennel, radish slices, cherries and salmon flakes. Drizzle with lemon juice, olive oil. Season to taste with salt and pepper and sprinkle with some oregano. 
You can also mix all the ingredients in a large bowl and mix well with the lemon juice, olive oil, salt pepper and oregano. Divide among 4 serving plates. 


START RECIPE

POACHED KUMQUAT & ALMOND CAKES 
December 22, 2010 
Kumquat & Almond Cakes 

I love this time of year for so many reasons. They hit me with a bit of nostalgia in the afternoon but they all revolve around the same flavors and scents. I found myself humming our favorite Christmas story. He caught me starring at the skyline while my mom was describing the snow back home. He noticed I let the cardamom pods linger on the countertop a little while. That's the holidays too. So I close my eyes and just imagine. 

Kumquats  

Chocolate. Thick as ganache and strong as coffee hot chocolate. Cardamom. My mom's Swedish cardamom rolls, Roasted chestnuts. Piping hot snack we would get on the streets of Paris while visiting my grandparents. Oolong tea. The perfect cup to warm you up in the afternoon. Clementines and kumquats. One of my favorite Winter dessert.  

Kumquat & Almond Cakes 

A yogurt and a clementine or a handful of kumquats was by far the most common dessert at our house during Winter. My mom has this gigantic wooden fruit bowl for everyday dinners that I love. Not because of what it is but because of what it promises. Comes Winter and it is a cornucopia of lychees, citrus, pears, nuts and dates. Snapping the citrus skin to smell their natural oils to feel instantly energized was however my favorite part.  

Poached Kumquats 

With all the hustle and bustle of the holidays, it only took a glance over the kumquats at the store to instantly feel the promises of clean, fresh and vibrant desserts. It brought about the biggest skip in my step and the urge to come home and start baking. I know, I know...it's all about the chocolate this time of year but I got to tell you, after rolling 3 pounds of truffles, I needed a break.  

I started slicing and seeding a couple of pints of kumquats and was almost instantly transported back to my parents' home. I had no idea what I was going to make for sure. I only had the beginning of a plan you see. My mind had stopped at poached kumquats. Once I had done those, I started popping them in my mouth like they were candies and figured I'd better come with a plan fast or there would not be many left to share with B.  

Kumquat & Almond Cakes 

Fate would have it that I had decided to explore some of my favorite dessert book again and had bookmarked pretty much the entire citrus section in Hidemi Sugino's The Dessert Book. I can easily bookmark all the recipes in the book actually. There are handful of pastry chefs I would follow blindly in the kitchen. Sugino is definitely one of them. His desserts are clean and yet complex, refined and yet simple. His recipe bring out the inquisitive quality of each of us and makes you wan to imagine dishes like he did. 

My mind quickly settled on a promising recipe for little tea cakes chock full of kumquat compote, poached kumquats and almonds. The compote is made by poaching sliced kumquats until tender and pureeing the whole thing, rind and pulp, together which adds the perfect hint of bitterness to cut down the sweetness of the cakes. Every bite makes made us slow down, close our eyes and just sigh.  

Because we wholeheartedly approve. Hope you do to! 

Kumquat & Almond Cakes 

Kumquats and Almond Tea Cakes, adapted from Hidemi Sugino: 

Makes 12 

For the cakes: 
1/2 cup (70gr) millet flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
pinch of salt 
1 stick (113gr) unsalted butter at room temperature 
1 1/4 cup (150gr) powdered sugar, unsifted 
4 medium eggs 
1 cup (100gr) ground almonds 
1/2 cup reserved kumquat compote (recipe follows) 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt. Reserve.  
Butter the insides of cake tins (your preference) and place on a baking sheet. Reserve. 
Heat the oven to 350F. 
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter and powdered sugar. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add the flour mixture and ground almonds and mix another 30 seconds. Fold in the kumquat compote with a spatula. Divide the batter in between your prepared tins, top with either fresh or poached kumquat slices and bake for 10-15 minutes until golden brown(the larger the tins the more baking time will be needed) 

For the kumquat compote: 
1 cup kumquats, halved and seeded 
1 cup sugar 
3/4 cup water 

Place the kumquats, sugar and water in medium saucepan over medium high heat and slowly bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Turn the heat down and simmer for about 10 minutes, covered, until the kumquats are translucent. Remove from the heat and cool to room temperature. 
Once cooled, drain the kumquats from the syrup, reserve a few slices and puree in a food processor adding 2 tablespoons to 1/4 cup of the reserved syrup as you go along. (it should look and feel like thick marmelade). Reserve. 



START RECIPE

GLUTEN FREE STRAWBERRY JELLY ROLL CAKE - SHARE OUR STRENGTH CONTRIBUTION 
December 14, 2010 
Gluten Free Strawberry Jelly Roll Cake 

As a child, I can't say that I ever knew hunger. I got hungry for sure. But I never knew the deep feeling of being hungry and knowing I would not be able to satisfy my growling stomach. My parents did not always have it easy and I can see there were times when budgets and expenses were calculated to the penny but one thing my brothers and myself never questioned to have or not was food.  

If times were a bit strained, we, as children, never knew it. I just noticed we ate more eggs throughout the week and lots more soups. I never put two and two together because I never had to. There was always food in my plate. Some children don't have this chance. Some children go hungry on a daily basis.  

Local Strawberries 

My parents knew that. They made sure we did too and very early on in our lives made sure we knew the purpose of charity. We did it silently. Charity is an act that comes from inside of you. It does not need to be advertised or require praises. Just do. We know what it's like to hit hard times and to have a great support system of friends and family. Some people are not as lucky. Most of all, children should never know the physical and emotional pains of hunger. 

If I can direct your heart to cozy place this holiday season it would be toward Share Our Strength and their No Kid Hungry campaign. Gaby from What's Gaby Cooking emailed a few weeks back and ed a bunch of bloggers to partner up with Share Our Strength to help them spread the word and raise awareness through a virtual progressive dinner, inviting readers to a Holiday Table filled with all sorts of ideas from appetizers to dessert, vegetarian, budget friendly, gluten free, gourmet, etc... 

Gluten Free Strawberry Jelly Roll Cake 

All these dishes are so tempting and for us so easy to come up with but for others it would take a village to fill up their plates. And the ones of their children. We are that village. We are that community. I have an ever shaking faith in our humanity but I believe the holiday season makes us softer and in that regard, I am indeed ing that you would consider participating and pledging to help Share Our Strength No Kid Go Hungry campaign. Why? Because one dollar makes a child already closer to 10 meals. That's huge... 

Pomegranate  

My virtual contribution to the campaign is one of my dad's all time favorites, a Strawberry Jelly Roll Cake. His mother used to make it for him when he was a kid and I grew up listening to my dad's recollection of Mamette (her nickname) and her famous jelly roll cake. It made him feel like a king. Every child should know that feeling. I always felt like it was a special moment when my mom would try her hand at it. A simple cake such as this became the anchor of some many memories in our family.  

A lot of us out there will be creating wonderful family memories gathered around a pretty table filled with great foods, family recipes, easy, budget friendly, etc...you name it. We will give praises and thanks. We will raise our forks and cheer. We will eat, rub our bellies and laugh. 

Every child deserves to have such memories... 

Gluten Free Strawberry Jelly Roll Cake 

Strawberry Jelly Roll Cake, adapted from this recipe. 

Serves 6 to 8 people 

4 large eggs, separated 
1/2 cup (100gr) sugar  
1/3 cup + 1 tablespoon (65gr) rice flour 
1/3 cup + 1 tablespoon (65gr) millet flour 
1/2 teaspoon xanthan gum 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
pinch of salt 
softened butter for the baking sheet 
1/2 cup to 1 cup strawberry jam 
powdered sugar to decorate 

Preheat the oven to 375F. Butter the bottom of a baking sheet (I used 2 quarter sheet pans) and line with parchment paper, butter the paper liberally. 

In a large bowl, whisk together the egg yolks and sugar until pale yellow. Add the rice and millet flours, gum, baking pwder and salt. Switch to a spatula and fold the ingredients together briefly. 
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, whip the whites at high speed until medium stiff peaks form. 
Take about 1/3 of the egg whites and fold them into the egg yolk/flour batter. Do not worry about folding carefully, you just want to use the moisture from the whites to add fluidity to the batter. 
Now, carefully fold in the rest of the egg whites into two installments. 
Spread the batter onto the prepared baking sheet and bake for about 8-10 minutes or until barely golden brown. 
Remove from the oven and let cool about 5 minutes. Place a piece of parchment paper onto your work surface, invert your baking sheet over it and slowly peel the parchment paper from the bake of the cake. Using the bottom piece of paper, start rolling the cake onto itself, starting from the longest edge. 
Let it cool completely. Unroll, fill with the jam and reroll. Sprinkle with powdered sugar if desired. Keep refrigerated until ready to eat. 


START RECIPE

GLUTEN FREE CANDY FILLED CHOCOLATE CAKE DOUGHNUTS 
October 28, 2010 
Gluten Free Chocolate Cake Doughnut & Salted Butter Caramel Icing 

Despite seeing it on the store shelves since late August, I resisted getting candy for Halloween until yesterday. For once, that's kind of how my stubborn mind works. The more commercial a holiday gets, the longer I'll resist buying into it, and it was not until B. gave me a friendly hint that maybe we should stock up for trick or treaters, that I finally started seeing the displays at the store. However, I had a better reason for waiting to be closer to Halloween: Lara's Candy Filled Doughnuts. Oh yes. 

Kisses 

If I make cookies, they disappear as if a tornado went through the kitchen. If I get Halloween candy a week before the due date, I keep finding little gold and silver wrappers in his pockets for seven days straight. The man cannot be left alone with food. I count my blessings that he can't cook but knows how to eat. I also love when he gets involved and excited about baking something even if I know I'll be the one at the stove.  

Candy Filled Chocolate Cake Doughnuts 

Nothing warms my heart more than seeing people get excited about food even if they feel or are clueless about putting it together. I know we will have a good time in the kitchen or at the dinner table ultimately. It did not fail when I saw B. huntched over Lara's book letting out some ooohs and aaaaahhs with almost every turn of the page. Then he got quiet. Pages were not being turned. He gave me a look so meaningful I thought he was going to start his sentence with mom, can I have that? 

Candy Filled Chocolate Cake Doughnuts 

Yep, at the sight of Candy Filled Chocolate Cake Doughnuts, this grown up guy was 6 years old again. Very relieved to hear his deep sexy adult voice hon, isn't it time for Halloween candy? You know the old complaint it's not what you said, it's how you said it? Yay...I totally knew what he was up to. I said give me the book - Give me the book now - you can't look at the book. You're making me crazy. And then he gave me that look again and I melted. Again. Damn he's good! So I told him to pick one and stick to it. 

This recipe is so easy to put together and so timely if you want to play with some of your extra candy. If that ever happens to you that is. I had to hide a handful to make sure I'd have something to post! I made the dough the night before which always makes it easier to roll, gluten free or not and had enough to make 15 doughnut holes filled with various candies and 4 doughnut rings. I want to make a full batch of dipped cake ones now. Forever. Well, only if it involves salted butter caramel icing. 

Candy 

Lara...dear...you did again. And we could not be happier...! 

Public Service Announcement: a while back, my friend Rachael from Today's Mama and the nice folks at Avery ed me if I wanted to contribute a design to their back to school binder initiative with pictures of mine for the cover and back. Unless, it's a doughnut Rachael s me for, I pretty much melt when she talks to me. She's hot. Strong. Nice and her schedule really makes me look like a lazy bum. Anyway... Avery and Today's Mama are running a follow up campaign and giving away 10 binder certificate for you to create your own. It's super easy and fun...and a neat way to keep things organize. More details on Today's Mama. 

Candy Filled Chocolate Cake Doughnuts 

Gluten Free Candy Filled Chocolate Cake Doughnuts: 

2 cups Gluten Free Baking Mix for Doughnuts (recipe follows)  
1/4 cup unsweetened natural cocoa powder 
1/2 teaspoon guar gum 
1 tablespoons baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/4 cup sugar 
1/4 unsalted butter, cold and cut into small dice 
2 eggs, separated 
1/4 cup plain yogurt  
2/3 cup milk, scalded and cooled 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
vegetable oil for frying 
your favorite candy (cut smaller if too big) 
extra sugar and cocoa powder for dusting if desired 

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the baking mix, cocoa powder, guar gum, baking powder, baking soda, salt and sugar. Blend on low and add the butter still on low speed, blending until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. 
In a separate bowl, combine the egg yolks, yogurt, milk and vanilla. With the mixer running on slow, slowly pour the wet ingredients into the flour mixture. Scrape down the sides and mix for 30 seconds. The batter should be similar to loose cookie dough. Let rest 30 minutes (I like overnight) (stay with me people I am still talking about doughnuts!) 
When ready, roll the dough to about 1/4 inch thick and cut out 3-inch rounds with a cookie cutter. Place a candy piece in the middle of the round, bring the edges over toward the top and seal. Roll the dough ball in the palm of your hands and place them on a baking sheet. 
Refrigerate 20 minutes. During that time, heat the oil up to 350F. 
When ready to roll, gently drop the holes in the hot oil. Fry a couple of minutes per side. Drain on paper towels and dust with sugar and cocoa powder if desired. 

For doughnut rings: 
Roll the dough and cut holes with a 3-inch cookie cutter then with a smaller cookie cutter to create a hole (I use the opposite end of a pastry tip). Fry as directed above. 

For the salted butter caramel sauce: 
1 cup granulated sugar 
3 tablespoons water 
1 stick (115gr) salted butter at room temperature, cut into small pieces 
1 cup heavy whipping cream 

In a heavy saucepan set over low heat, combine the sugar and water. Cook just until the sugar is dissolved. Add the butter. Let it come to a boil and cook until it reaches a golden caramel color. Remove from the heat and add the cream ( it will splatter and get crazy). Whisk to combine and put back on the stove. Let it come to a boil again over low heat and cook 15-25 minutes until you reach a creamy consistency.  
Let cool. Dunk or double dunk (!) the doughnut. 

Gluten Free Doughnut Baking Mix: 
Enough for a standard recipe in the book - mix all the ingredients together. 

1 cup potato starch 
1/4 potato flour or sweet sorghum 
1/2 tapioca flour (we don't like the taste so I used cornstarch) 
1/2 cup sweet rice flour 



START RECIPE

S' MORES DOUGHNUTS 
October 18, 2010 
S'Mores Donuts 

By the lack of postings one could wonder if I ever came down from the high that BlogHer Food and San Francisco. I did. I actually gave myself one day to catch up and crashed hard on Wednesday evening. Responsibilities hit me up again the following day. I love that work is insane and insanely good. I don't like that it keeps me away from here this much. I definitely rely on a 4 o'clock break complete with cookies and milk. Or as it was the case this week, doughnuts and hot chocolate! 

I am not one to be afraid of deep frying but I certainly am one to shy away from making doughnuts that often. I know I will end up eating too many. Right out of the hot oil. Almost. Perfectly brown. Crisp and soft. Lightly sprinkled with powdered sugar. Simple is always best but there is a place and time to venture out in baking. Especially when it comes to doughnuts. S'Mores Doughnut specifically. 

An A Fall Kind Of Day 

Thanks to Lara Ferroni and her book Doughnuts: Simple and Delicious Recipes to Make at Home, I only have to sit there and pick the next one. I know for having been part of her testing panel that all the recipes have been seriously and thoroughly discussed, dissected and perfected. I could not have possibly tested them all and started making a list of the ones to bake once her book would be out. S'mores doughnuts of course, but also Apple Cider, Creme Brulees, Sopapillas, Loukoumades, Carrot Cake...there is literally a doughnut and a glaze for every friend you have.  

You get it. I liked the book. A lot. The doughs, the glazes, the fillings. The regulars like Basic Raised Yeast doughnuts, the basic cake, the chocolate version. And a impeccable gluten free version. Maple glaze, bourbon, caramel, chocolate. There four pages of these for your belly's delights. See? Not kidding when I tell you there something for everyone. 

S'Mores Donuts 

If you are into visuals, Lara's book is truly the proverbial feast for your eyes. And how could it be otherwise with Lara's talent as a photographer and stylist. Knowing what goes into a shoot when working/acting as a single agent, from the shopping, cooking, styling, photographing, all the way to post processing, you can tell that Lara poured her heart and perfectionism into this book.  

It shows. It's fun, it's straight foward, it's generous in details and instructions and it's quirky at times. Much like Lara... 

Chocolate Comfort 

So far this week, I made the Gluten Free Raised Doughnuts with a citrus glaze and the S'Mores Doughnuts. Wish I had not ran out of gluten free flours when I decided to make these but from the look on B's face as he chowed through a couple, I know I must make them again this week! Stay tuned for another doughnut post...Both versions of the basic yeasted doughnut were equally easy to work with and very close in texture which is no small order in gluten free baking. That makes me very very happy for the rest of the recipes in the book. 

Bravo Lara! Hard work pays off, period. Wishing your book plenty of sweet and delicious success! I am honored everyday by your friendship and generosity. 

S'Mores Donuts 

S'Mores Doughnuts (reprinted with Lara's permission) 

Makes 8 to 12 

4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, divided 
10 graham crackers, finely crushed 
2 teaspoons superfine sugar 
1 batch Basic Raised dough (recipe follows) 
1 tablespoon milk or water 
twelve 1-ounce squares milk or dark chocolate 
48 mini marshmallows 

Stir together 3 tablespoons of the melted butter, graham crackers and sugar. Cover and set aside. 

Prepare the dough as directed through the proofing stage. Roll the dough to just a bit more than 1/4 -inch thick. Cut into 3-inch diameter rounds. Roll out half of the rounds to about a 3 1/4-inch diameter. To assemble, lightly brush each wider round with the milk or water and place a square of chocolate and 4 mini marshmallows in the center of each. Top with the smaller rounds and lightly pinch to seal. Then recut with the same cutter to seal the edges. 

Fry the doughnuts as directed and let cool for only 3 minutes. Brush each doughnut with a little melted butter, then dip into the graham cracker mixture. Serve immediately. 

Basic Raised Dough: 

3 tablespoons (22grams) active dry yeast, divided  
1 cup of whole milk, heated to 110ºF, divided 
2 to 2 1/2 cups bread flour, divided 
2 tablespoons (30 grams) superfine sugar 
½ teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
3 egg yolks 
½ stick (4 tablespoons / 2 oz) unsalted butter or vegetable shortening 
vegetable oil for frying 

In a medium bowl, dissolve 2 tablespoons of the yeast into ¾ cup of the milk. Add ¾ cup of flour and stir to create a smooth paste. Cover and let rest in a warm spot for 30 minutes. 

Combine the remaining milk and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Add the rested flour mixture along with the sugar, salt, vanilla, and egg yolks. Mix until smooth. Turn off the mixer and add ½ cup of the remaining flour. Mix on low for about 30 seconds. Add the butter and mix until it becomes incorporated, about 30 seconds. Switch to a dough hook and add more flour, about ¼ cup at a time with the mixer turned off, kneading the dough at medium speed between additions, until the dough pulls completely away from the sides of the bowl and is smooth and not too sticky. It will be very soft and moist, but not so sticky that you can’t roll it out. You may have flour left over. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour (and up to 12 hours). 

Line a baking sheet with a lightly floured non-terry dish towel. Roll out the dough on a slightly floured surface to ½ inch thick. With a doughnut or cookie cutter (can use a glass, too) cut out 3-inch-diameter rounds with 1-inch-diameter holes (for filled doughnuts, don’t cut out the holes). 

Place the doughnuts on the baking sheet at least 1 inch apart and cover with plastic wrap. Let sit in a warm spot to proof until they almost double in size, 5 to 20 minutes, testing at five-minute intervals. To test whether the dough is ready, touch lightly with a fingertip. If it springs back immediately, it needs more time. If it springs back slowly, it is ready. If it does not spring back at all, it has overproofed; no worries- you can punch it down and re-roll it once. 

While the doughnuts are proofing, heat a heavy-bottomed pot with at least 2 inches of oil until a thermometer registers 360F. With a metal spatula, carefully place the doughnuts in the oil. Fry for 1 to 2 minutes per side or until golden brown. Remove with a slotted spoon, drain on a wire rack over a paper towel, and let cool before glazing. 

Disclosure: the book was sent by Lara's publisher as a thank you for being one of her recipe testers. 




START RECIPE

CHOCOLATE & HAZELNUT MERINGUE CAKE  
July 30, 2010 
Birthday Cake Preparations 

Thank you guys so much for playing the game the other day and giving me great suggestions for B's birthday cake. He was a bit shocked I did not have any of my own - the truth is I had too many and after staring at them for a few days, none seemed that fun anymore! And, I really like when we can all share, communicate, participate. 

As you can guess, B's cake had plenty of chocolate, eggs, sugar and nuts...Which one did I/we pick? EP's Chocolate and Hazelnut Meringue Cake from Martha Stewart ended up stealing the show. Congratulations on winning the Artisan Breads At Home. You are going to love this book! 

Chocolate & Hazelnut Meringue Cake 

How did I pick? Actually I ended involving B. a little in the process as I noticed after 50 or so comments that I was slightly putting in the maybe or no sure columns flavors, desserts, ideas that he could picked if given the chance. It was his birthday after all. And I have known in the 13 years we have been together that I should never expect anything if only be surprised. 

We sat down and I ed him for key words that would help me narrow down the winning suggestion. Here were his specs: chocolate, nuts, crunchy - creamy, gluten free so I would not have to worry about adapting (go ahead, insert awwww right here!). I read everyone of your comments and put a star next to the ones that fit his criteria then I went back and had him look them over, one by one and pick his top three. 

Chocolate & Hazelnut Meringue Cake 

You guessed it, I didn't want to spoil the element of surprise completely. Yes. It turned out into a day 100% tuned into him and I am happy for it. This year has been nothing but tranquil for us and he deserves every bit of you you you you you that I could give him. And I am glad you indulged me in this rather fun and chocolatey quest. 

Chocolate & Hazelnut Meringue Cake 

That cake is sublime! flourless, creamy, complex and yet not so rich that you have to stop after one bite - more like control yourself not to want it for dessert at every meal! Granted we invited plenty of friends to share with us so the slices were small but I have to say, sneaking in the kitchen passed midnight and sharing a slice with a cold glass of milk after everyone had gone home was pretty much the ahhhhhh moment of the day. 

Chocolate & Hazelnut Meringue Cake 

The combination of the deep flavors of the cake (I added espresso to the batter instead of vanilla extract) with the meringue was exactly what he ed for. Because we have been heat indexes hovering around the 115F-120F and high humidity, I cooked the meringue topping longer than what the recipe called for to make sure it would not end up in complete puddle of goo when the time to serve it came about. It worked perfectly and yielded the right amount of crunch and softness after standing for a few hours. Like macarons, this cake only tastes better after 24 hours. 

Speaking about cake and chocolate, how about doing a little French Word A Week on chocolate cake while we are at it? So, here it is: click on Gateau Au Chocolat to hear its pronunciation. 

Thanks everyone for playing along! Have a great weekend everyone! 

Chocolate & Hazelnut Meringue Cake 

Chocolate and Hazelnut Meringue Cake, adapted from Martha Stewart. 

Makes one 9-inch cake 

Notes: 
- Now is not the time to use the cheap-o chocolate. Get the best quality bittersweet chocolate you can find as it is the star of the recipe. (Guittard, Callebaut, Valrhona, El Rey, Scharffen Berger, etc...) 
- To toast the hazelnuts, preheat oven to 350F and spread the nuts in a single layer on a baking sheet. Bake 10 to 15 minutes until golden brown. 
- To skin the nuts without driving yourself crazy, place them in a mesh bag (like a recycled orange or lemon bag) and rub the nuts between your hand over the sink. The skins will fall and only the naked nuts will remain in your bag. 
- The cake at room temperature is excellent but served really cold, it becomes even fudgier and the meringue gives slightly under your tooth like a soft pavlova. Brilliant! 

For the cake: v
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more for pan 
3/4 cup firmly packed light-brown sugar 
6 large whole eggs, separated 
12 ounces bittersweet chocolate, melted and cooled 
1 1/2 tablespoons espresso (or vanilla) 
1 1/2 tablespoons rum (optional)(not with us!) 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

For the meringue: 
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, roughly chopped (1 cup) 
1 cup hazelnuts (about 4 ounces), toasted and skinned (see notes)and roughly chopped 
1 tablespoon cornstarch 
4 large egg whites 
3/4 cup sugar 

Prepare the cake:  
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Butter a 9-by-3-inch springform pan. Line bottom with parchment paper. Butter parchment and set aside. 
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, whip the butter and brown sugar until pale and smooth at medium speed, about 3 minutes. Add egg yolks, one at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping the bottom and sides of your bowl if necessary. Add the melted chocolate, espresso (or vanilla), rum, if using, and salt. Beat until combined. Transfer to a clean bowl and wash your mixing bowl thoroughly. 
In a clean mixer bowl fitted the whisk attachment, beat the 6 egg whites on high speed until soft peaks form, about 2 minutes. Fold one-third of the egg whites into chocolate mixture. Fold in remaining egg whites and pour batter into prepared pan, and bake 25 minutes. 

Prepare the meringue: 
Combine the chopped chocolate, nuts and cornstarch in a small bowl, and set aside. Place remaining 4 egg whites in a clean mixer bowl fitted with the whisk attachment, beat on high speed until frothy. With the mixer running, slowly add the sugar and continue beating until stiff peaks form, about 8 minutes. Fold in hazelnut mixture. 

Assemble and Finish: 
Remove cake from oven. Using a large offset spatula, spread meringue mixture on top of cake using as little strokes as possible not to deflate the meringue, and return to oven. Bake until meringue is lightly browned and crisp, 25 to 30 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let stand 10 minutes. Run a knife around the edge of the cake to loosen, and release sides of pan. Let cool, about 30 minutes, before slicing and serving. 


START RECIPE

OLLALIEBERRY FINANCIERS & TOASTED COCONUT ICE CREAM 
July 13, 2010  
Olallieberry Financiers 

It only took twelve years to admit this but I must say that in spite of the heat and humidity I really love summers here in the South. Yes. I've said it. Love them. You might wonder what else is to summer here that would make me forgive the mosquitoes, head bashing heat and stick-to-your-clothes-like-frosting-on-a-cupcake humidity. Well...Thunderstorms! Rain! Afternoon showers! Tea breaks and evening swims! 

Olallieberry Financiers 

It was not until a recent conversation with my parents that I realized what summer here was like versus what I thought it should be: it's like back home. Just a tad stronger. Every afternoon around 4pm the skies darken and the rain slowly moves in. Thunder. Lightning. The skies get a thick cloud cover and the house is nothing but shadows. It reminds me so much of the summer months of my childhood that it makes it bearable. 

Fresh Figs & Financiers 

This weekend was no exception and we gladly took the opportunity to do as much as early as possible and cozy up in the afternoon. That's the thing to do during summers here, start early and keep going until the rain stops you or the craving for a cold drink and a sit down become too strong. We set up on the dining room table and started working on our respective ts, facing each other. Looking up once in a while. Bouncing ideas off of each other as they came along. Drawing directions and paths to the life we want to live. 

Olallieberry Financiers 

We did just that on Saturday in the later part of the afternoon just as the rain was starting to fall against the window and we sat there quietly listening. A new summer ritual. A good cup of French press coffee or a cold glass of milk, a plate of still warm tea cakes or a handful of cookies. I suddenly got a hunkering for the coconut ice cream I had made specially for profiteroles to celebrate our anniversary the next day. Instead of a snack we stayed true to the past 12 years being married and did the opposite of what was planned. We had dessert before dinner. 

Olallieberry Financiers & Coconut Ice Cream 

Toasted coconut ice cream from David Lebovitz via my friend Jen, financiers made with the olallieberry jam that Anita had given me in Boulder, a plate of fresh figs. The first we've had this season. 

I like summers here after all... 

Olallieberry Financiers 

Olallieberry Jam Financiers: 

Makes 12 

Note: you can substitute any type of jam for the one I used here. You can also use about 3/4 cup of fresh cut fruit or 3/4 cup fresh berries instead. 

1 stick (115g) unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1 cup (100gr) unsifted powdered sugar 
1/2 cup (60gr) ground almonds 
1/4 cup (30gr) rice flour 
pinch of salt 
4 large egg whites 
1/2 cup olallieberry jam 

Preheat your oven to 375F and position a rack in the center. Lightly butter the inside of 12 financiers molds or muffin tins and place them on a baking sheet. Set aside. 
In a medium saucepan set over medium high heat, melt the butter until it turns to a rich hazelnut brown color. Remove from the heat and let it cool for 5 minutes. Strain and reserve. 
Mix together the powdered sugar, flour, ground almonds and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Add the egg whites and mix on low speed until all the ingredients are coming together. Add the brown butter, increase the speed to medium and beat until smooth. 
Divide the batter among your molds, drop about 1 to 2 teaspoons of jam in the middles and swirl with the tip of a knife. Bake for about 15 to 20 minutes or until golden brown. 

Toasted Coconut Ice Cream, adapted from The Perfect Scoop by David Lebovitz. 

1 cup (230gr) dried shredded coconut, preferably unsweetened 
1 cup (250ml) whole milk 
2 cups (500ml) heavy cream 
pinch of salt 
5 large egg yolks 
1/2 cup (100gr) sugar 
1 teaspoon rum 

Preheat the oven to 350°F (175°C). Spread the coconut on a baking sheet line with parchment paper and bake for 5 to 8 minutes, stirring frequently to prevent it from burning. Keep a close eye on it as it toasts rather fast and goes from perfect to burnt even faster. Remove from the oven when it is golden brown and let cool completely. 
In a large saucepan set over medium high heat, warm the milk heavy cream, salt and add the toasted coconut. Cover, remove from the heat, and let steep at room temperature for 1 hour. 
Re-heat the cream mixture over medium heat until hot. In the meantime, whisk the egg yolks and sugar until pale and thick. Slowly pour the cream mixture over the egg yolks, stirring as you do. Whisk well. Place the mixture back into the saucepan over medium and cook until the mixture thickens and coats the back of a spatula. Remove from the heat and pour it through fine mesh strainer set over a large bowl. Press the back of your spoon against the coconut to extract as much liquid and flavor as possible. Add the rum and let cool to room temperature (you can place a piece of plastic wrap and poke holes through it to prevent condensation if you are concerned about leaving things uncovered at your house).  
Once cooled, refrigerate the mixture until completely cold (I let mine in the fridge overnight) then freeze in your ice cream machine according to its manufacturer's instructions. 



START RECIPE

GLUTEN FREE NUTELLA DOUGHNUTS & A COOKBOOK GIVEAWAY! 
June 24, 2010 
Nutella Doughnuts 

I'm in Utah folks! Got in Salt Lake City yesterday afternoon and I'm heading to The Canyons Resort in Park City Utah where the Evo 10 Conference is held this year. To say that I am honored and stoked is putting it mildly. Yesterday as I was ing my inbox implode in between two planes, I just smiled and thought breathe - take the travel time as a time out. I am looking forward to this week, complete with the workshop in Boulder. Work does pile up when you can't look! It's fine though. It's actually better than fine. It's impossible to complain when mixing work and play in such beautiful scenery as the mountains of Utah and Colorado. 

Nutella Doughnuts 

Before I left I treated B. to a couple of special treats and of course stocked the fridge and freezer. When I made these Nutella Doughnuts from Lorna's cookbook, The Newlywed Kitchen, they almost ended up being dinner. We just could not stop eating them. Pop. Pop. Pop. Oops... Tender, moist, tangy and filled with Nutella....the one thing we truly fight over in the kitchen. If you finish the jar and do not replace it, be ready to face a mini temper tantrum. And not necessarily from me...! 

Nutella Doughnuts 

Last week I raved about the simplicity of the Parmesan Roasted Asparagus Tomatoes and Eggs I made from her cookbook. Well, let me raved about how spending a little bit of time in front of the stove to fry these babies up was worth it. Ten times that even. The recipe comes together in no time and the size of the doughnuts makes them the perfect little bite to have after dinner or as a treat (but you won't stop at one, let me tell you that!). The oozing Nutella in the center? Literally the proverbial icing on the cake. Per-fect. 

Sour Apples 

I love drop doughnuts and the simplicity of Lorna's recipe makes them so easy to adapt gluten free. If you are afraid of deep drying. Fear no more. The temperature given for the oil is right on for these. They turn into perfect airy pockets with a slight tang coming from the ricotta and lemon zest. Love how the Nutella plays so well with the lemon zest. Just the right touch of it too. They are so good plain too. Filled with some strawberry jam I made last month. I even filled some with compote I made after the neighbors gifted me with a bet full of sour apples. 

Nutella Doughnuts 

Another successful bite from Lorna's book! And guess what? Today is your chance to get your hands on a copy to see and taste what I am talking about! That's right! Lorna is graciously giving away a copy of her book to one of you. All you have to do is leave a comment on this post (anonymous please sign a name) - between today Thursday June 24th and Sunday June 27th, midnight Easter time. A winner will be picked at random from the comment pool by my better half. 

Salt Lake City Bloggers Meet-Up 

While in Salt Lake City I stayed with Maria and Josh, the team behind Two Peas And Their Pod and we are heading together to the conference, meeting up with Kristen, Katie, Amy and a whole bunch of people I'm thrilled to meet for the first time. Since this morning is pretty much the most quiet time I foresee for the rest of the week, I thought I'd post some snapshots of our Bloggers Meet Up. I'll try to post snapshots of the conference, attendees and speakers as I go along. 

Salt Lake City Bloggers Meet-Up 
Maria and Christie. 

Maria organized a little get together for me and Christie from The Table Runner graciously hosted it at her beautiful home. We spent hours talking about life, blogging, food, kids and so much more. Made me go to bed with a full heart and a skip in my step. Thank you ladies for your generosity! 

Salt Lake City Bloggers Meet-Up 
Group Shot 

From left to right: Becky at Project Domestication, Barbara from Barbara Bakes, Maria from Two Peas and Their Pod, Brooke from Cheeky Kitchen, Holly from Phemomenon with baby Kayla, Bonnie from City Home Country Home, Dara from Cookin' Canuck, Becky from The Vintage Mixer and Chrisie from The Table Runner up front. 

Salt Lake City Bloggers Meet-Up 
Dara. 
 
Salt Lake City Bloggers Meet-Up 
Becky 

Salt Lake City Bloggers Meet-Up 
Jaime from Sophistimom makes the best Italian sodas.... 

Good luck in Lorna's cookbook giveaway! 

Nutella Doughnuts 

Nutella Doughnuts, courtesy and copyright Lorna Yee from The Newlywed Kitchen cookbook. 

Makes about 14 doughnuts 

Note: to adapt these gluten free, I replace the flour with 1/2 cup superfine sweet rice flour, 1/4 millet, 1/4 cup sorghum flour, and added 1/4 teaspoon xanthan gum for a smooth dough. 

3 large eggs 
1/4 cup sugar 
8 ounces whole-milk ricotta 
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1 cup all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
Canola, vegetable, or peanut oil for frying 
Powdered sugar for dusting doughnuts 
1 cup Nutella 

In a large mixing bowl, stir together the eggs, sugar, ricotta, salt, and vanilla extract. Add the flour and baking powder, and mix until just combined. 

Heat 3 inches of the oil in a deep pot until it registers 375 degrees F on a deep-fat thermometer. Drop a tablespoon of batter into the oil and cook for about 3 minutes on one side, and 2 minutes on the other side. (Do not make the doughnuts much bigger, as the outside will brown too quickly and they won’t cook through.) Don’t overcrowd the pot--you will probably need to fry the doughnuts in three batches. Cut one doughnut open to make sure it’s cooked through before removing the rest of the batch from the oil. When the doughnuts are cooked, scoop them out and allow them to drain on paper towels. Repeat with remaining batter. 

Dust the doughnuts with powdered sugar and pipe Nutella into the center of each one. These doughnuts are meant to be devoured warm out of the fryer, so make them just before you’re both ready to eat them. 

Variation: Add 1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon or orange zest to the dough and fill the doughnuts with your favorite jelly or lemon curd. 



START RECIPE

DESIGN*SPONGE FEATURE: IN THE KITCHEN WITH  
May 14, 2010  
Rhubarb Financiers & Coconut Ice Cream  In The Kitchen With 

Thanks for the birthday wishes, emails, ecards and presents you sent. You made my day - week - month! It's been a week full of work which suits me just fine since I don't really know how to relax and take it easy. Seems like I am playing a game of Catch me if you can this summer and you know what? I am loving it. I am loving the work, the pressure and the adventures. I've never felt this alive and this happy . Our household depends on it too. It's not just for the fun ya'll. Although... hot dang, this much fun on the job should be illegal! 

Coconut Ice Cream And Strawberries 

What's even more fun is to do a little feature for the gals of Design*Sponge. Grace and Kristina are always so thorough and dedicated to their craft that it's always a pleasure to work for them. Kristina ed if I wanted to do something gluten free this time and I had no problem coming up with a few items making the best use of some of my favorite seasonal fruits.  

Strawberries & Cream 

For some reason we have been hooked on vanilla and coconut ice cream lately and as soon as the first strawberries showed up at the market we started having ice cream and lemon-thyme marinated strawberries almost every other night for dessert. That alone satisfies my better half just fine. I, on the other hand, always desire something else to sink my teeth into so I usually make a quick batch of gluten free shortbread cookies but with my crazy habit to load up on rhubarb at the market, I decided to use some of the poached one I prepared for the panna cotta and tart and use it in financiers.  

Local Strawberries 

Financiers, or friands in some parts of the world, have to be one of the easiest tea cakes to adapt gluten free and pretty hard to mess up too. And who can resist the addictive smell of browned butter? Obviously not us because these did not last long once all the shots were in the box. Maybe five minutes because we had to drink the ice cream first it was melting so fast?! 

Our lemon-thyme and lemon balm plants have been growing wildly and we try our best to include them in most of the foods we eat this Spring. Salads, berries, spring rolls, marinades, etc... and we have been throwing whole stems in homemade lemonade a lot lately for a little extra flavor boost. Lemon thyme is milder than regular thyme and obviously on the citrus-y side which makes it a good substitute, replacement, change from mint. Hope you can give it a try one day! 

Rhubarb Financiers 

Head over to Design*Sponge for the recipes and more pictures and say hello if you can! 



START RECIPE

SIMPLY GOOD CHOCOLATE CAKE 
March 30, 2010 
Simply Good Chocolate Cake 

Spring. Easter. Trees in bloom. Bright sunshine. Rain drops. Big sneezes. Little colds. Travels. Coming home. And chocolate.  

My mom ed me the other day what was my creative process to write posts. Well, there it is. I throw words on paper. Words that go with the pictures I have taken of the recipe I have just made. I take them and elaborate with each paragraph. That's the process. My way of remembering to hit all the key points of what I want to talk about. Sometimes events prompt me to a recipe. Sometimes I just execute for no other reason than the desire to cook, bake or simply eat (I know - how very pedestrian, right?!). Now, that's just me. How do you go about writing a post? 

Simply Good Chocolate Cake 

Words. Pictures. Moments. They all weave together to give you a story. I like stories. For the past two weeks I have been listening to my mom tell the family's stories. Some were old news, others not. Cousins getting married. Some having babies. Planning my grandfather's 100th birthday party. Quarrels and accolades. It's a big family. It bends and it snaps. It mends together and alone too. There are events or moments however that help us cross bridges and stick together, like Easter and Spring. 

Simply Good Chocolate Cake 

And chocolate. A good, simple chocolate cake. One we happily sunk our teeth into coming home from an escapade to Asheville, NC this past weekend. This was the perfect time of year to experience the duality that is early Spring in our region. Each week brings a mix of cold and hot days, sunshine and rain, thunderstorms even.  Cardigans, tee shirts, pants, short, boots and sandals. All have to be at the ready for a few more days until the weather balance finally shifts completely. 

Back home we say En Avril, ne te decouvre pas d'un fil (meaning in April you are better off not shedding all your warm layers yet). Here in the South, that advice rings true comes mid-March but in his usual fashion, my Southern boy pretty much relocated all warm layers to the back of the closet. And got a cold. One of those nasty colds with big sneezes and heavy head, sore throat and low fever. And with men's general low tolerance of discomfort, you would think this is the end of the world of course. 

Simply Good Chocolate Cake 
One thing that reassured me that the world was not going to fall apart for Bill was that he never lost his appetite. How can you in Asheville? One of the best food oriented towns in the South East! We had some of those typical Spring days I was just mentioning above leaving us with just a small craving for something chocolate. A small but nipping feeling that could only get satisfied with a light but intense bite of chocolate cake. 

In doubt. Make cake. In craving. Make chocolate cake. The world around you will instantly be comforting and lovely. 

Simply Good Chocolate Cake 

This could well turn out to be my favorite gluten free chocolate cake to date. One that holds many promises for changes and substitutions. We had it plain but I can easily foresee the addition of pecans, walnuts or pistachios in the near future. Maybe chocolate chips added to the batter for that little extra fudgy feeling when they are still warm out of the oven. A ripe mashed banana could easily find its way in there one day soon. Who knows? Can't wait to bake it again! 

Before I leave you with the recipe, I must announce the winner of the givewaway last week: congratulations to Julie from Kitchen. The cards and book will be on their way to Vancouver as soon as you send me your address via email {mytartelette AT gmail DOT com} 

Simpy Good Chocolate Cake: 

Serves 8 

Notes: I like to use superfine gluten free flours more and more gluten free baked goods as some people always have issue with the slight change in texture and softness compared to regular all purpose flour. They are easily found online but feel free to use whatever you have on hand and if you don't have to go gluten freee, use regular flour instead. 
By choice, I've almost completely switched to baking with maple syrup, honey or sucanat which I used here but feel free to use regular sugar instead. 

2 large eggs 
3/4 cup (150gr) sucanat or regular sugar  
1 cup (250ml) sour cream 
6 oz (180gr) bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, melted and cooled 
1 stick (115gr) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly 
2 tablespoons cocoa powder 
1/2 cup (75gr) superfine brown rice flour 
1/2 cup (75gr) superfine sweet rice flour 
1/2 cup (65gr) sorghum flour 
1/2 cup (75gr) millet flour 
OR 2 cups (250gr) all purpose flour instead of the 4 flours mentioned above 
1/2 teaspoon xanthan gum (do not use with all purpose flour) 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
pinch of salt 

Preheat oven to 350F and position a rack in the middle. 
Line the inside of 8-10 muffin tins with cupcake liners, or 8 ramekins or one 8-inch round cake tin (use a piece of parchment paper at the bottom). Lightly butter or spray the inside of the tins. 

In the bowl of an electric mixer, whip the eggs and sucanat/sugar for 2-3 minutes at medium speed until light and airy. Turn the speed to low and add the sour cream, the melted chocolate and butter and continue to whip until everything looks fully blended. Slowly add the cocoa powder, all the gluten free flours (or all purpose if using), the gum, baking powder and pinch of salt. Turn the speed back up to medium and whip until the batter comes together in a uniform manner. 
Divide among the prepared cake tins (or one single cake pan) and bake 25-30 minutes or until a toothpick inserted near the center comes out clean.  



START RECIPE

UPSIDE DOWN PEAR CARDAMOM CAKE (GLUTENFREE) 
March 20, 2010 
Gluten Free Pear Cardamom Cakes 

Growing up, my brother and I did not have any kind of special relationship. We did not dislike each other but we did not like each other either. I guess you could say we had one typical brother-sister relationship. I had crushes on his friends just about every week and he found my friends a bit too Strawberry Shortcake for his taste. We had wrestling fights, screaming fights, pillow fights and he often hid in my closet to scare me before bedtime. Typical.  

I often wondered if we would ever find some common ground. Some place of understanding. We did find it when our brother passed away. Right there, in front of me, stood a broken man. He was not this my brother-this pain in the rear boy anymore. He was in pieces. I was too. And we picked them up together. We held each other up and found each other then. There is no reason why things happen. They just do. And we knew what we had to do then. And we still do it. Our way. 

Baking With Pears 

We still don't call each other that often. Or send cards. Or email. He knows I got his back and he's got mine. He's always smart with business and techie advice for me. He loves food and is an amazing cook. He gave me two beautiful and smart nieces.  

While chatting on the phone the other day, we were catching up on each other's work, progress, accomplishments and to hear him say that he was proud of me was the biggest validation of my life. Like Christmas had come in March. There was also a pause. Very unusual if you know the speed of my brother's conversations. That's when he dropped a line that I didn't expect... 

Gluten Free Pear Cardamom Cakes 

Hey, I really like when you write me a post on your blog for my birthday. I also really like when all your virtual friends come wish me a happy birthday. Silence on my part. A bit surprised that he would admit this. I laughed. Out loud. Then I apologized and promised that, yes, I would post something on his birthday. I virtually made him some (gluten free) Upside Down Pear and Cardamom Cakes that we quickly devoured last night. 

As a kid, his birthday dinner would always include frog legs with tons of parley and garlic and a chocolate cake with walnuts and oranges that I was not particularly fond of. I did think about making it for him again as a wink to the past but my mom had brought over the new French Saveur and Elle a Table and I kept coming back to the article on upside down cakes in Elle a Table. So many variations from one simple base that it would have been difficult not to find one that suited everyone. 

Gluten Free Pear Cardamom Cakes 

I adapted the base recipe to make it gluten free and added some cardamom to the ripe pears I used in the cake. There is something about pears and cardamom that is almost magical once baked together. Instead of doing the cakes and the caramel with sugar, I used wildflower honey. I am really enjoying baking with sucanat, honey and maple syrup versus regular granulated sugar these days. So much more fragrant. So many more health benefits too. 

The cake was moist from the millet and sweet rice flour, oozying with honey and vanilla bean caramel, and the smell permeating the kitchen was unbelievable. We quickly brewed some fresh coffee and sat down with some cake. 

Gluten Free Pear Cardamom Cakes 

So here's to you Arnaud! Happy Birthday! Joyeux Anniversaire!  

Upside Down Pear Cardamom Cakes, adapted from Elle A Table 

Makes four 4-inch cake or one 8-inch cake. Serves 6-8 

For the honey caramel: 
1/2 cup honey 
1/4 cup water 
1/2 vanilla bean, seeded 

For the cake batter: 
3 pears, peeled and thinly sliced 
3 large eggs 
1/2 cup (125ml) honey 
1 1/2 (160gr) stick unsalted butter, melted and cooled 
3 1/2 oz (100gr) superfine sweet rice flour 
2 oz (50gr) millet flour 
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 

Preheat oven to 350F. Line the inside of four 4-inch springform pans or one 8-inch pan with parchement paper. Place the pans on a baking sheet and set aside. 

For the caramel:
In a large heavy bottomed saucepan, place the honey, water and vanilla bean seed and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to medium and let the syrup simmer down until thickened, should take 5-8 minutes. Remove from the heat. Divide the caramel among the prepared cake pans. 

For the cake: 
Divide the pear slices among the bottom of each cake pan and set aside. 
In the bowl of an electric mixer, beat the eggs and honey on medium speed for about 2 minutes. Slowly add in the melted butter. Add the flours and cardamom and mix until fully incorporated, about 1 minute. Divide the batter in between the pans and bake for 30-40 minutes or until golden brown. 

Remove from the oven and let cool to room temperature. Unmold carefully over a plate.  out for the oozing honey caramel. 




START RECIPE

LEMON GOAT CHEESE CHEESECAKES WITH BLOOD ORANGE SAUCE 
January 27, 2010 

Lemon & Blood Orange Cheesecakes 

There aren't many things you'll see me do because they are cool and there are very few people I (almost always) agree with or trust (almost always) blindly. My dear B. will tell you I spend my life with an imaginary raised eyebrow and my right ear pointed up. I am not skeptical, I am curious. Sometimes cautious. Sometimes not at all.  

When Shauna mentioned that she was working on gluten free graham crackers, I had my ears tuned in to her updates. When she posted them, I blindly and happily followed her trail and made a batch. Then two. Then B. said they'd be even better under a cheesecake. So I made a batch of mini Lemon Goat Cheese Cheesecakes with Blood Orange Syrup. Then two.  

Lemons 

I often talk about tea time as being an important ritual of my day (as much as my schedule lets me) and when I moved to the US, I became quite fond of having a few graham crackers with my tea. I was a student, they were cheap and a box lasted a while between roomie and myself.  

Then I stopped having a cookie with tea altogether. Partly because it's not that much fun a ritual when done alone so I'd save those moments for when my parents would visit and partly when I discovered it was not helping my health issues. I stopped. Until last week.  

Baking Cheesecakes 

I made a batch of Shauna's gluten free graham crackers as soon as I came home from Atlanta. I sat down with my cup of tea and my just baked cookies and sighed. Content and thankful. Bill started saying that they were pretty close to the real thing but not quite until I stopped him, with my eyebrow raised, and ed if the real thing is what makes us truly happy then these are it for me and added it's ok if you don't like them as much...more for me!  

Men don't generally take a hint and yet mine likes to give me some, especially when it comes to desserts. He starts by fidgeting around the cookie jar. Opens the fridge, closes it. Plays with the cookie jar some more. Until I break down and  if he has a suggestion. He may not bake or cook, but he's got good ideas about eating. I had all forms of citrus laid out on the countertop for an article I was working on and he suggested we use some of the lemons and make a cheesecake if possible.  

Lemon & Blood Orange Cheesecakes 

Since it was spur of the moment, I had about half the quantity of cream cheese I needed but being a big fan of goat cheese in desserts, I used some to make up the difference. The tang of the fresh goat cheese worked perfectly with the tang of the lemons. I felt it needed some color though and made a quick blood orange syrup to go with it.  

This first forray into a completely gluten free cheesecake was such a success that I made another batch a couple of days later. Yes. That good.  

Lemon Goat Cheese Cheesecakes with Blood Orange Syrup:  

Makes 8 mini cheesecakes  

For the graham crakers: follow the recipe on Shauna's site blindly...you won't be disappointed, and grind enough graham crakers to make 1 cup crumbs.  

For the cheesecake:  
1 cup (250ml) graham cracker crumbs  
4 tablespoons (60gr) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly  
1 cup (200gr) sugar, divided  
8 oz (240r) fresh mild goat cheese, at room temperature  
8 oz (240gr) cream cheese, at room temperature  
juice and zest of a whole lemon  
3 large eggs  

Preheat the oven to 325F and position a rack in the middle. Line 8 standard sized muffin tins with liners and slighly spray with cooking spray. Place the muffin pan in a large roasting pan. Set aside.  

In a medium bowl, stir together the graham cracker crumbs, the melted butter and 1/4 cup (50gr) sugar. Divide the mixture evenly among the prepared muffin liners and pat with the back of a spoon. Bake for 5 minutes. Let cool. Lower the heat to 300F.  

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the remaining sugar with the cheeses and the lemon zest on medium speed until the mixture is completely smooth. Add the eggs, one at a time and beating well after each addition. Add the lemon juice and beat another 30 seconds. Divide the mixture evenly among the muffin liners. Add hot water to the roasting pan but do not worry about coming up halfway the side of the muffin pan too much. The oven temperature is already so low that the water is just to be on the safe side. Add at least one inch inside the roasting pan.  

Bake the mini cheesecakes for 20 minutes or until slightly giggling (or jiggle - whatever suits your mood) in the middle still. Keep an eye on them as they bake rather fast this way. Let cool completely before unmolding and serving with the blood orange syrup.  

Notes: I made 8 small ones (baked in muffin tins) but you could make two 4-inch ones and bake them for about 10 minutes longer at the same heat.  

For the blood orange syrup:   
1 cup (250ml) fresh blood orange juice  
1/2 cup (100gr) sugar  

In a heavy bottomed medium saucepan, stir together the blood orange juice and the sugar over medium high heat until the sugar dissolves and the mixture comes to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer down until the liquid is about reduced by half. Let cool and serve with the cheesecakes.  




START RECIPE

POACHED PEAR AND ALMOND FALLEN SOUFFLE CAKES  
December 21, 2009  
Poached Pear Almond Souffle Cakes 

All weekend long I kept hearing about the snow falling down, heavy and thick in some places, watery and clumpy in some others. Friends here were making hot cocoa and shoveling driveways. My parents back home in France were describing the park in our village as wearing a light dusting of snowflakes. Here, we started to wonder if we would spend Christmas day in shorts like we did last year. Probably not but neither Bill nor I have put on coats yet this year. Indeed, we finally had signs of Fall. In December.  

I have long understood that the South beats to a different rythm. It's in the air. Literally. It suits my personality just fine. Winter breeze at 5am and reddish-brown leaves still falling, blanketing the yard by 5pm. Winter citrus sharing shelf space with Fall pears and apples at the market. I just felt compelled to fill my bet with the juiciest mini d'Anjour pears I could find, go home and make these gluten free Poached Pear and Almond Fallen Souffle Cakes.  

Baking With Pears 

One thing I have inherited from my mother and grandmother (beside the all-in-or-nothing temperament) is their love for poaching fruits in the colder month and using them in all sorts of desserts. I don't really care what the thermometer reads outside lately. I am a bit homesick. It's the holidays. I'm poaching. As I told Bill French Christmas carols and lots of poached fruits - deal with it!. His eyes lit up and he replied let me pull out some pillows and we can cozy up and you can tell me all about all the Christmases of your childhood. Love that man. 

Fo us, one of the many joys of being in a relationship is to share just about everything. Even a bad cold. I don't mind having a cold. I do mind when it hovers between cold and flu with fever, aches and chills but without knocking you down completely. This thing we have been sharing back and forth has been lowering all our levels by 40%-50% or so. It angers the bejesus out of me. Especially a few days before Christmas when there is still a ton to get done and lots of friends to see. But as we sat down with a cup of ginger tea and a warm pear and almond cake, we felt instantaneously better, warmer and happier.  

Sunday Mornings Are For Poaching Pears 

I did convert the recipe to be gluten free to work with my diagnosis (yes, I know, research is still out on that one but I see the rewards of going gluten free and almost sodium free and that's good enough for me) and I snuck in a whole poached pear instead of a half like my grandmother used to do. However, I know it wasn't the reason why they rose as high and fell as quick as souffles.  

We then changed their names too. The original was more of a scribble on a piece of paper from Mamie reading Gateaux Amandes et Poires Pochees. Faites attention, ils degringolent which could be translated as Almond and Poached Pear Cakes.  out, they tumble down. And she was absolutely right. Hence B. felt compelled to rename them - he's a stickler that way, ahah! 

Poached Pear Almond Souffle Cakes 

Whichever name you choose, all I know is that they are the perfect cross between a souffle, a cake and a custard. That for a brief moment they stopped my coughing and sneezing and that Douce Nuit Sainte Nuit never sounded more beautiful. 

That is good enough for me... 

Poached Pear Almond Souffle Cakes 

Poached Pear And Almond Fallen Souffle Cakes: 

Makes 6 

Note: you can core the pears from the bottom to about 1 inch from the top with an apple corer but these are so tiny that I just removed the stem button at the bottom. Everything else in the core baked to very soft texture and the seeds were easy to remove while eating (kind of like tails on baked shrimp). 

For the poached pears:  
6 mini d'Anjou pears, peeled (or other small pears like Forelles or Seckel) 
1/2 cup (100gr) sugar 
2-3 cloves 
2-3 cardamom pods 
1 stick cinnamon  
5-6 allspice berries 
1-2 star anise 
1/2 lemon 
4 cups (1 liter) water 

For the cakes: 
3 tablespoons (40gr) unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1/2 cup (100gr) sugar 
2 eggs 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3/4 cup (190ml) heavy cream 
1 cup ground almonds (blanched or skin on - your preference) 
1/4 cup (40gr) sorghum flour (or use 1/4 cup all purpose flour) 
1 teaspoon baking powder 

Prepare the pears: 
Place the pears, spices, lemon and water in tall saucepan and bring to a boil over medium high heat. Lower the heat and let them simmerfor 15-20 minutes or until the pears are just soft (poke with a toothpick to check). 
Remove from the water using a slotted spoon and allow to cool on paper towel or baking rack. 

Prepare the cakes: 
Preheat the oven to 350F and position a rack in the middle. 
Slightly butter or spray 6 ramekins and place them on a baking sheet. Set aside. 
In the bowl if an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter and sugar on medium speed until light and fluffly (about 3 minutes). Add the eggs, one a time and beat well in between each addition. Reduce the speed to low and add the vanilla, heavy cream, almonds, flour and baking powder and beat until incorporated. Fill each ramekins about 1/3 full with the batter and place a poached pear in the center. 
Bake for 25-30 minutes. 



START RECIPE

PEACH CHAMOMILLE MOUSSE CAKES 
June 12, 2009 
 Peach Chamomille Mousse Cakes 

There are times in your life when you need to pull out all the stops, set up a special table, make an extraordinary tasty meal and just twirl some caramel strands around pretty mousse cakes. When crap hits the fan outside of my comprehension I just try to deal with it the best way I can: doing the things I know, doing them with dedication and focus. Yes, like twirling caramel strands around Peach and Chamomille Mousse Cakes. 

Granted, my normalcy may not be yours but we all deal differently with stress and incredible circumstances. You might set out to clean your closet or reorganize your files. B. takes the house on a vaccum marathon. I usually go to the dock, take a huge breath in and go home to try to find some way to reconnect and it always ends up with the kitchen counter covered in sugar and flour. I also forge ahead in the photography and writing projects I have (portfolio is up!) happy not to have a minute to think too much about the telephone ringing. (I did previously established that I had a weird sense of logic, didn't I?!) 

Peach Chamomille Mousse Cake 

I have been quite open here in the past, sharing painful sentiments and emotions, bringing you to share with me the positive in rather difficult moments. But there are circumstances that only a handful of people (if that many) have been made aware of and I wish to keep for ourselves for now. Sorry to tell you that things are not always as they seem without elaborating but not having to formulate yet again things into words here is such a relief. 

All day long we make plans, rationalize, explain, and I find peace knowing that I can come here and just hint at stuff and then tell you in the lightest manner possible to go bake a cake because things are prettier all wrapped up in sugar. Thank you for allowing me to do that. Being here with you and sharing what I am passionate about whether it be pastry, baking, photography, ingredients is one of the best part of the day. Thank you. 

Peach Chamomille Mousse Cake 

One thing I am passionate about when Spring comes around is going down to the farmer's market and get all my produce fresh and at ridiculously low prices. Egss, raw milk, vegetables and fruits galore. Happy, happy! I got so excited the other day when I got the first local peaches of the season. Velvet skin, rich colors and intoxicating scent. Happier, happier! 

With peaches this fresh and juicy in my bet, I could only think about making ice creams and mousse. I wanted to create something soft and subtle, something that makes you want to close your eyes and focus on what it is you are eating and not only just eating it. I made a simple lemon and olive oil cake for the base, opting for a grassy flavored oil to play up with the peaches. The two different mousses start with the same base, a pate a bombe for which I flavored the sugar syrup with a good handful of dried chamomille buds (organic, usually by the bulk teas), and added pureed peaches to half of the mousse base. You can simply refrigerate the cakes until set and enjoy them chilled or freeze them and let them soften a bit for 10-15 minutes. We had them both ways and enjoyed them equally. 

Peach Chamomille Mousse Cakes 

One year ago: Snickers Macarons 

Peach Chamomille Mousse Cakes: 

Makes four 3-inch cakes 
Notes: I build these cakes in 3-inch wide entremet or mousse cake rings but you could build one single cake in a 8-inch round or 8x8-inch cake pan. Only the look will be different. Instead of using rhodoid to line the rings, (nothing against it, just did not have any on hand), I used a much less expensive medium: plastic proctector sheets (yes the ones used around the office to protect documents) and cut them to fit the inside of the rings. 
I did brush the cake base with Limoncello but you can skip this step if you wish. 
For the lemon olive oil cakes: 
1 1/2 cups (185gr) all purpose flour 
1 cup (200gr) sugar 
1 tablespoon (14gr) baking powder 
1/4 (1.5gr) teaspoon salt 
1/2 cup egg whites (about 3-4) 
3/4 (175ml) cup milk 
1/4 cup (62.5ml) lemon juice 
grated zest of one lemon 
6 tablespoons (80gr) olive oil 

For the chamomille and peach mousses: 

1.5 tablespoons powdered gelatin 
7 Tablespoons (130gr water), divided 
2 cups (500 ml) heavy cream 
6 egg yolks 
1/2 cup (100 gr) sugar 
2 tablespoons dried organic chamomille buds 
3/4 to 1 cup peach puree (I process 2-3 cut peaches until finely pureed) 

For the caramel decorations, please read here and here. I just twirled the caramel around a large tin can instead of a wooden spoon.  

Prepare the cakes: 
Preheat oven to 300F and position a rack in the center. 
In a bowl, stir together all the dry ingredients for the cake. Set aside. 
In a separate medium bowl, whisk the egg whites and the milk. Make a well in the center of the flour mix and slowly add in the egg white mixture while stirring with a whisk. Add lemon juice, zest and the olive oil. Mix with a whisk until smooth. Line a quarter sheet pan with parchment paper, lightly spray with cooking spray and pour in the batter. Bake for 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes back clean. Let cool and cut out four 3-inch rounds to fit your cake rings (extra cakes freeze well for up to 3 months). Line 4 cake rings with rhodoid or plastic sheets cut to fit and place your cake bases at the bottom. Place the rings on a baking tray and set aside. 

Prepare the mousses: 
In a small bowl, sprinkle the gelatin over 2 tablespoons of water and let stand while you prepare the pate a bombe. 
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment (or hand held beaters), beat the cream until it holds soft peaks. Chill it while you prepare the mousse base. Wash your bowl and whisk attachment. 
In a heavy saucepan, stir together 5 tablespoons of water, sugar and chamomille buds. Bring to a boil over medium heat. Since you are not making caramel, it is ok to stir occasionally until the sugar is dissolved. Let it boil and bring the mixture to 238°F on thermometer (soft-ball stage). Strain the syrup to remove the chamomille over a container with a spout (makes it easier to pour over the egg yolks) 
In the clean bowl of your mixer, still using the whisk attachment, beat the yolks slightly to break them up. Increase the speed to medium high and slowly pour the hot syrup over the yolks. Go fast enough to prevent the eggs from scrambling but not so fast that you end up with most of the syrup on the wall of the bowl or the whisk. Dissolve the gelatin in the microwave for 10-12 seconds and quickly add it to the pate a bombe. Continue to whip until the mass is completely cold and airy. 
Fold about one third of the pate a bombe base into the chilled whipped cream to loosen it up and make it easier to incorporate homogeneously. Fold in the remaining pate a bombe. 

Assemble: Divide the mixture in half and carefully fold the peach puree into one part. Spoon or pipe the chamomille mousse over the cake base and do the same with the peach mousse. Refrigerate or freeze until set. 



START RECIPE

COLD STRAWBERRY MINT SOUP AND APRICOT TEA CAKES 
February 18, 2009  
Sweet Shot - Strawberry Mint Soup 

Some things are meant to be paired. You know, that cute mug and that lovely tea, cookies and milk, cupcakes and frosting, apple pie and vanilla ice cream, etc.. They are tasty on their own, and we can survive without one or the other, but they make sense together so why pass on the opportunity to have them both, at the same time, together, dunked, dipped, smeared, spooned, and scooped?.... 

This is what happened the other day with apricot teacakes and cold strawberry mint soup. I had a long night ahead of me and decided to make some tea cakes to help me through hours of file organizing instead of popping open a bag of chips and mindlessly muching my way through the entire bag. Withing 40 minutes or so I had about one dozen dried apricot tea cakes cooling down and we could not resist sampling one. Delicious and satisfying on its own. 


Teacakes and Strawberries 

That same day I also had become the instant parent of a 6 pound box of strawberries (they are in season right now in the Southern US) and after making ice cream, sorbet, strawberry scones, shortcakes and coulis, I still had about two cups left. That's when the idea of refreshing little shots of strawberry mint soup popped into my head. A mini detoxing shot in the morning to boost creative juices or a light way to end a rich meal. It was a breeze to put together, mixing mint simple syrup and strawberries in a food processor and a delight on its own. 

B. said he'd keep me company for a little while and sat at the dining room table with a plate of teacakes and a couple of strawberry soup shots. I was my nose one inch from the screen looking for a file I kept passing when he ed if I was going to blog about these. I said yes, sure, don't know when though. He added with his mouth full well, when you do, make sure you blog about them together!. He is a dunker and a spooner. He'll spoon peanut butter or jam on just about anything and dunk just about anything ressembling a cookie or a cake into coffee, tea, or milk. Surprising combinations have taken place but some yummy discoveries have occured that way too so I tend to trust his musings in the kitchen. Hence, you get them both today! Have them as singe items, have them as a tandem, they are the perfect snack break! 

Teacakes 

Apricot Teacakes Recipe: 

Makes about a dozen 

1/3 cup (67g) sugar 
2 large eggs 
4 tablespoons (56.5gr) butter, melted and cooled 
1/4 cup (58gr) sour cream 
1/2 cup (62.5gr) all purpose flour 
1/2 cup (125gr) dried apricot halves, diced 

Preheat the oven to 350F.  
Whisk together the eggs and sugar until pale and thick, about 2-3 minutes. Add the butter and sour cream. Whisk well and add the flour. Add the dried apricots and mix until incorporated. Divide evenly between muffin tins (or other small molds) coated with cooking spray and cook for 20 minutes or until golden brown. Let cool on wire racks. 

Cold Strawberry Mint Soup Recipe: 

1/4 cup (50gr) sugar 
1/3 cup (83ml) water 
2 tablespoon chopped fresh mint 
2 cups(290gr) fresh strawberries 

In a small saucepan, combine the sugar, water and mint and bring to a simmer. Cook for about a minute, until the sugar is completely dissolved. Remove from the heat and let cool (it will give the mint time to infuse the syrup). 
In the meantime, hull and halve the strawberries and place them in a blender or food processor. Once the mint syrup is cooled, process the strawberries, adding the syrup, one tablespoon at a time until the mixture is nice and smooth. The more syrup you add, the thinner your soup will be. Serve in shot glasses. 

Teacakes and Strawberries 

Lastly, I was psyched to hear from my friend Anita that Tartelette was named one of the world's 50 best food blogs. You can find the whole article here. Wow! I think there is going to be a giveaway here soon to celebrate!! Thank you all for your visits and comments, it is an honor. 



START RECIPE

CHOCOLATE ESPRESSO MOUSSE CAKES  
January 19, 2009  
Chocolate Espresso Mousse Cakes &amp; Latte Ice Cream 

You sound like you are far away...there are lots of fuzzies on the line, my mom said earlier on the phone as I was standing on the edge of the water ing Bailey timidly dip his paws in the cold marsh. 
Well mom...I am far away...and outside and it's really cold and rainy. That's probably why. 
I know where you are, obviously but what on earth are you doing outside in the rain? 
I am taking a taking a trip home 
ugh?... 
This is picture perfect January Parisian weather, mom. It's cold, it's damp, I can smell the leaves, the grass and I can hear the silence 
hear the silence. Your grandma used to say that. 

Well, I doubt it was bliss, peace of mind, or calm I experienced then as my feet were getting cold and the dog was looping around his leash from boredom but this moment spent outside did make me feel at home for a short while. Mom advised I got in and made myself some coffee, to which I enthusiastically agreed as I had the perfect slice of cake to go with it. Turned the coffee pot on and plated that one little cake I had saved and sat down in front of the fireplace. Then it felt cozy and warm...all the way down to my chilled bones. The temperatures have indeed dipped quite dramatically for the region and I may be the only crazy out there walking with a smile on my face, happy to bundle up in extra layers. It really put me in a mood for chocolate, coffee-ish and/or nutty desserts. 

Making Chocolate Mousse 

When a friend called ing if I could make a cake for a dinner party of 8 she was hosting, I don't think I even ed her preference. I happily volunteered a moist chocolate cake filled with a silky and rich chocolate mousse with a touch of espresso. I also made a pint of latte ice cream for her to plate with it. A couple days later she called as I was putting the layers in the oven and inquired how the cakes were coming along. I drew a blank, my blood froze solid. Cakes? How many do you need for 8?!!. She figured that since I like to make individual desserts that I would make petits cakes while I thought since she liked larger cakes that she was expecting one tall cake. Hmmm...since two 8-inch layers were already in the oven I said I'd make eight cakes out of that, somehow. 

Instead of trying to cut 16 rounds, fit them into rings and fill with mousse, I went on with my original idea, only slightly modified. Once the layers were baked and cooled, I layered them with the mousse, refrigerated until set, cut the cake in 8 servings and cut off the round edge of each slice so they would stand straight on a plate. I decided to skip an icing of buttercream or ganache as the mousse was already rich. I used the trimmed tops of the cakes instead and I broke these into pieces, dried them in the oven, processed them to fine crumbs and coated each individual gateau with those. 

One couple could not make it to the party. Their loss, our choco-espresso bliss... 

Chocolate Espresso Mousse Cake &amp; Latte Ice Cream 

Chocolate Espresso Mousse Cake Recipe: 

Serves 8 

For the cake:  
1 stick (113gr) butter 
1 cup (200gr) sugar 
1/2 cup (45gr) natural cocoa powder 
2 eggs 
1 1/2 cups (185gr) all purpose flour 
1 teaspoon (5gr) baking powder 
1 teaspoon (5gr) espresso powder 
1/2 teaspoon (2.5gr) baking soda 
1 cup (250ml) warm water 

Preheat oven to 325F. Butter two 8-inch round baking pans, sprinkle some flour into the pans, shake it around and tap the excess off. Line the bottoms with two 8 inch circles of parchment paper. Set aside. 
In a mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, mix together the butter and sugar until light and creamy. On low speed, add the cocoa and mix until incorporated. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Scrape the bowl with a spatula to make sure they are properly mixed in. Add the flour, baking powder, espresso powder and baking soda and mix on medium-low speed while slowly adding the warm water and mix until smooth. Divide the batter between the prepared pans and bake for 30 to 40 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the middle comes out clean. Let cool to room temperature and unmold the cakes. 
Lower the oven temperature to 300F. Level the cakes by trimming the tops off and break them in pieces. Place those on a baking sheet and bake for 15 minutes or until dried. Let cool completely and process them until smooth in food processor. Set the crumbs aside. 

For the mousse:  
6 oz semisweet chocolate, chopped 
1/4 cup (62.5ml) whole milk 
1 teaspoon espresso powder 
1/2 stick (55gr) butter 
1 egg yolk 
1 cup (250ml) heavy cream, cold 

In a bowl set over a pan of simmering water (make sure that the bowl fits snuggly over the pan and does not touch the water), melt together the chocolate, milk, espresso powder and butter. Remove from the heat and let cool to lukewarm. Whisk in the egg yolk. In a mixer, whip the cream to medium peaks and fold it into the chocolate mixture.  

To assemble: 
Place one cake layer in a springform pan, top with the mousse and place the second cake layer on top. Refrigerate until the mousse is firm, about one hour. Run a knife dipped in hot water around the edge of the cake and unmold. Use a long knife to cut the cake into 8 slices and make sure to dip it in hot water and wipe it clean each time to get clean cuts. Trim the ends of each slices to obtain triangles. Coat each piece with the reserved cake crumbs. 
Serve with ice cream or some whipped cream if desired. 



START RECIPE

LEMON POPPY SEED CAKE WITH MEYER LEMON MOUSSE  
January 12, 2009  
 Lemon Poppy Seed Cake With Meyer Lemon Mousse 

If you love a woman and are reading this blog, married, mated or single, this might help you understand her a tiny bit better: surrender. When she sees everything in chocolate, surrender. When she wishes for double cream in her eclairs, surrender. When she sneaks that last piece of caramel cake for a late night snack, surrender. Every month I go through a one week citrus fest and B. surrenders. I can't get enough vitamin C in my body and he laughs at the dessert scenarios I create to get my fix. He does not seem to mind the latest onslaught of Key lime mousse, grapefruit sorbet, citron givre and this Lemon Poppy Seed Cake topped with a Meyer Lemon Mousse. The strawberries...I thought the touch of red would tell him I love him too (wink). 

I love when it happens in the middle of winter since the selection could not be more perfect. I guess there could be worse cravings than this, right? Mine usually veer to chocolate and stinky cheeses after 4 days but after 10+ years together, B. knows, and as long as I don't combine some stinky Livarot and chocolate cake at the same time, (not that I ever did or will), he's pretty happy with the dessert choices. Most days are simple like half a grapefruit sprinkled with a little sugar and quickly broiled for a little sweet crust, fresh orange slices and mint salad. Some days it is a bit richer and then we split or we take it next door and share. Knowing that there is a gathering of some sort almost every Saturday around here, I made these individual cakes not knowing for sure their upcoming fate. Will they be all mine? Nah....! They helped a good game of Scrabble with our good friends last until the wee hours of the morning. 

The cake base is a straightforward lemon poppy seed cake jazzed up with Meyer lemon zest and juice. Why Meyer lemon? It's mild, fragrant without being offensive to your palate or your stomach. Next to my childhood citron de Menton (which we celebrate almost as much as Carnival), this is the one that sends me into citrus heaven so when they started popping out at the stores, I hoped, skipped and jumped...Feel free to use any other kind. The mousse base is a simple diplomat cream (pastry cream based) with lemon juice and more zest added. I did save half a lemon to candy some slices for decoration and almost slapped myself for not making more...they were so good on their own. The recipe may look like a lot of work but really beside making the cake and the mousse, the rest is assembly. 

Photobucket 

Lemon Poppy Seed Cake With Meyer Lemon Mousse Recipe: 

Kitchen Note: You can build this cake as one 8-inch round cake if you do not have cake rings, or three 4-inch round individual springform pans. The cake won't be as tall built in an 8 inch so I'd advise doubling the mousse recipe. You can also do what I tend to do and recycle cans of tuna, wash them well, remove the top and bottom lids and line them with parchment paper or film strips like you would with purchased rings. I am also known to recycle soup cans if I need to build tall individual desserts. The ones I used here were 3 inches wide and 2 inches tall. 

For the cake:  
1 1/2 cups (185gr) all purpose flour 
1 cup (200gr) sugar 
1 tablespoon (14gr) baking powder 
1/4 (1.5gr) teaspoon salt 
1/2 cup egg whites (about 3-4) 
3/4 (175ml) cup milk 
1/4 cup (62.5ml) lemon juice 
grated zest of one lemon 
1 tablespoon (9gr) poppy seeds 
1 stick (113gr) butter, melted 

Preheat oven to 300F. In a bowl, combine all the dry ingredients for the cake. Set aside. In a separate bowl combine the egg whites and the milk. Make a well in the center of the flour mix and slowly add in the egg white mixture while stirring with a whisk. Add in the lemon juice, zest, the poppy seeds and the melted butter. Mix with a whisk until smooth. Line a half sheet pan or a 9x13 inch pan with parchment paper, lightly spray with cooking spray and pour in the batter. Bake for 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes back clean. Let cool and cut out six 3-inch rounds to fit your cake rings. Line 6 cake rings with parchment paper or rhodoid (pastry film, but cut sheet protectors work well too), secure with tape if necessary and place your cake bases at the bottom. Place the cakes on baking tray. Set aside.  

Soaking syrup: 
In a small saucepan set over low heat dissolve 1/4 cup lemon in 1/4 cup of water with a couple of tablespoons of sugar. Let cool to room temperature and brush the cake rounds with the syrup. 

Strawberries: 
1 to 2 cups strawberries 

Quickly wash the strawberries, pat them dry and slice into 1/8 inch to a 1/4 inch thick slices and line the cake rings with them. Set aside. 

Meyer Lemon Mousse: 

1 1/2 teaspoons (3 sheets) gelatin  
2 tablespoons (30ml) cold water 
1 1/4 (310ml) whole milk 
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise and scraped (throw the seeds in the pot with the milk) 
3 large egg yolks 
1/4 cup (50 grams)sugar 
1/4 cup (40 gr)cornstarch 
1/4 cup (62.5ml) lemon juice 
2 tablespoons lemon zest 
1 cup (250ml) heavy cream 

In a ramekin, sprinkle the gelatin over the water and let stand until you prepare the cream. In a medium bowl, whisk the sugar and egg yolks together, add the cornstarch mixing until you get a smooth paste. Set aside. 
Meanwhile in a saucepan combine the milk and vanilla bean on medium heat until boiling. Remove from heat and add slowly to egg mixture, whisking constantly to prevent curdling, (pour through a strainer if this happens). Remove vanilla bean. Place the egg mixture back into a medium saucepan and cook over medium heat until thick, stirring constantly. Add the lemon juice and zest, cook another 30 seconds and remove from the heat. Immediately add in the gelatin and stir until completely dissolved. Place a piece of plastic wrap on the surface of the cream so that it does not develop a skin as it cools to room temperature. 
Whip the heavy cream until stiff peaks form and gently fold it into the pastry cream. Pipe or spoon the mousse immediately in the cake rings, level the top with an offset spatula and refrigerate. If you have any leftover, spoon into dessert dishes or glasses for quick snack. 

To garnish: 
candied lemon slices (tried this recipe just the other day, works very well) 



START RECIPE

CHOCOLATE CHESNUT VANILLA YULE LOG OR RASPBERRY VANILLA MEYER LEMON?   
December 28, 2008  
Milk Chocolate And Chestnut Yule Log 

Now say that twelve times real fast after after one too many glasses of Champagne!! These Yule Logs are the desserts I served the family on Christmas dinner and between the 12 of us there were barely enough left for a midnight snack! I did not intend to double the work and make two just for fun but between the ubber chocolate fans and the I ate too much but I still want dessert peeps, and for my sake of a stress free meal where everybody was happy, I knew that making two was a necessity. Interesting how I belong to both groups...Let's face it, it's dessert, it's mousse, it's chocolate and it was delicious! 

It was also the dessert chosen by the adventurous Hilda from Saffron and Blueberry and Marion from Il en Faut Peu Pour Etre Heureux for the December Daring Bakers' Challenge: a French Yule Log by Flore from Florilege Gourmand. I loved the traditional cake Yule Log we made last year but this entremet version suits me perfectly...if there is mousse and creme brulee and anything contrasting in texture such as a layer of crisp or feuillantine....I am coming running!! 
 
I loved that even with the rules laid out to make a log filled with 6 different components, we still had plenty of room to use our favorite combos and flavors. Each log had to include a dacquoise layer, a feuillantine insert, a creme brulee insert, a ganache insert, a mousse and an icing. Yes...both my logs have 7 components...Again, not trying to be special....just playing with aesthetics and visuals by splitting the mousse component in two and flavoring differently. 

The dark chocolate Yule Log had hazelnut dacquoise layer, a milk chocolate feuillantine, a milk chocolate and chesnut mousse, a vanilla mousse, a chestnut creme brulee, a dark chocolate ganache and a dark chocolate icing. 
The white chocolate Yule Log had an almond dacquoise, a white chocolate feuillantine, a raspberry mousse, a a vanilla mousse, a Meyer Lemon creme brulee, a white chocolate ganache and a white chocolate icing. 

Milk Chocolate And Chestnut Yule Log 

Because I was working with two logs at the same time, (and getting Christmas together) it was easier for each log to make the vanilla mousse recipe, divide it in half and add milk chocolate and chesnut puree to one part and do the same for the other log adding pureed raspberries to half the mousse. I used the traditional French gavottes for the feuillantine part in the chocolate log as the recipe stated but I ate too many (!) to have enough for the other one so I subbed with cereals like I had done in the Poire D'Eve cake last month. The chesnut puree was from a can sent by mom in one of her care packages and the Meyer lemon addition to the creme brulee in the second log was a last minute addition after a neighbor gave us a couple....but I can't ever turn those down! 

I also went very DIY with the inserts and molds (just  Lisa, she's got pixel proofs!). The rounded vanilla insert in the chocolate log was creating by pushing a foil covered pvc pipe down the chocolate-chestnut mousse, freezing that part and then taking the insert out, brushing the ganache on and then filling it with the vanilla mousse. The mold was a traditional French loaf pan I brought with me when I moved here...a girl's gotta have her necessities, right?!!
The rounded mold for the white chocolate log was made by cutting an aluminium foil pan and molding it around a wine bottle and setting it in the bottom of another loaf pan. The mousse set up was created by using another foil wrapped pvc pipe but a foil wrapped paper towel insert-roll thingie works the same. Since I did not have the right size of rhodoids sheets used to line up the loaf pans I cut sheet protectors (you know the ones used to protect your important documents during presentations) and used them the same way...but plastic wrap works just as well. 

For the sake of keeping this post to less than a mile and not losing your attention too long, I am only writing down the instructions for the chocolate log with the changes I made in italics for the raspberry one. 

Milk Chocolate And Chestnut Yule Log 

Chocolate Chesnut Yule Log: 

Note: You can use the Dacquoise for the bottom of your Yule Log only, or as bottom and top layers, or if using a Yule log mold (half-pipe) to line your entire mold with the biscuit. Take care to spread the Dacquoise accordingly. 

2.8 oz (3/4cup + 1Tbsp / 80g) ground hazelnuts 
1.75 oz (1/2 cup / 50g) confectioner’s sugar 
2Tbsp (15g) all-purpose flour 
3.5oz (100g / ~100ml) about 3 medium egg whites 
1.75 oz (4 Tbsp / 50g) granulated sugar 

Finely mix the hazelnuts and the confectioner's sugar. (If you have a mixer, you can use it by pulsing the ingredients together for no longer than 30 seconds)
Sift the flour into the mix. Beat the eggs whites, gradually adding the granulated sugar until stiff. Pour the hazelnut mixture into the egg whites and blend delicately with a spatula. 
Grease a piece of parchment paper and line your baking pan with it. Spread the batter on a piece of parchment paper to an area slightly larger than your desired shape (circle, long strip etc...) and to a height of 1/3 inches (8mm). 
Bake at 350°F (180°C) for approximately 15 minutes (depends on your oven), until golden. Let cool and cut to the desired shape. 
For the raspberry log I used almonds instead. 

Vanilla Mousse: (divided in half before the end to add the chocolate and chesnut) 
2/3 cup (160g) heavy cream (35% fat content)  
2/3 cup (160g) whole milk 
1 vanilla bean 
4 medium-sized egg yolks 
3 oz (6 Tbsp / 80g) granulated sugar 
3 Tbsp (25g) cornstarch, sifted 
4g / 2 tsp powdered gelatin or 2 sheets gelatin 
1 cup (240g) whipping cream (35% fat content) 

Pour the milk and 2/3 cup cream into a saucepan. Split the vanilla bean in half, scrape the seeds from the vanilla bean halves into milk and put the vanilla bean in as well. Heat to boiling, then turn the heat off, cover and let infuse for at least 30 minutes. Then remove the vanilla bean. Beat the egg yolks with the sugar until white, thick and fluffy. Add the cornstarch, beating carefully to ensure that there are no lumps. While whisking vigorously, pour some of the milk into the yolk mixture to temper it. Put infused milk back on the stove on medium heat. Pour yolk mixture back into the milk while whisking vigorously. Keep whisking vigorously until mixture thickens considerably. As soon as the mixture starts to boil, leave on for only 2 more minutes. (The recipe says you should remove the vanilla bean at this time but in the interest of no one getting burned, that can be done after you take the pastry cream off the stove.) Add the gelatin and let it melt completely, stirring once or twice. Divide the batter in two equal parts. 
For the milk chocolate-chesnut variation: add 1/4 cup melted milk chocolate and 1/4 cup chesnut puree to one half of the cream. 
For the raspberry log: add 1/2 cup pureed raspberries to half the cream. 
Whip the 1 cup whipping cream until stiff and add gradually to the pastry cream. Blend delicately with a spatula. 

Dark Chocolate Ganache insert: 
1.75 oz (4 Tbsp / 50g) granulated sugar 
4.5oz (2/3 cup – 1 Tbsp/ 135g) heavy cream 
5 oz (135g) dark chocolate, finely chopped 
3Tbsp + 1/2tsp (45g) unsalted butter softened 

Make a caramel: Using the dry method, melt the sugar by spreading it in an even layer in a small saucepan with high sides. Heat over medium-high heat, ing it carefully as the sugar begins to melt. Never stir the mixture. As the sugar starts to melt, swirl the pan occasionally to allow the sugar to melt evenly. Cook to dark amber color (for most of you that means darker than last month’s challenge). 
While the sugar is melting, heat the cream until boiling. Pour cream into the caramel and stir thoroughly. Be very careful as it may splatter and boil.
Pour the hot caramel-milk mixture over the dark chocolate. Wait 30 seconds and stir until smooth. Add the softened butter and whip hard and fast (if you have a plunging mixer use it). The chocolate should be smooth and shiny.  
For the white chocolate ganache insert: change the chocolate and skip the butter, proceed the same way. 

Lemon White Chocolate Raspberry Yule Log 

Feuillantine insert: 
3.5 oz (100g) milk chocolate 
1 2/3 Tbsp (25g) butter 
2 Tbsp (1 oz / 30g) praline (or bring 1/2 cup of sugar to an amber caramel and spread it on 1/2 cup almonds and ground until fine) 
2.1oz (60g) lace crepes(gavottes) or rice krispies or corn flakes or Special K 
Melt the chocolate and butter in a double boiler.Add the praline and the coarsely crushed lace crepes. Mix quickly to thoroughly coat with the chocolate. Spread between two sheets of wax paper to a size slightly larger than your desired shape. Refrigerate until hard. 
For the raspberry log: replace the milk chocolate with white. 

Chestnut Creme Brulee: 
1 cup (230g) heavy cream 
4 medium-sized (72g) egg yolks 
0.75 oz (2 Tbsp / 25g) granulated sugar 
1/2 cup chesnut puree 

Heat the cream to just boiling. Whisk together the sugar and egg yolks (but do not beat until white). Add the chestnut puree. Pour the cream over the sugar/yolk mixture. Mix well. Wipe with a very wet cloth and then cover your baking mold (whatever shape is going to fit on the inside of your Yule log/cake) with parchment paper. Pour the cream into the mold and bake at 275°F (100°C) for about 1 hour or until firm on the edges and slightly wobbly in the center. 
For the raspberry log: replace the chestnut puree with 1 tablespoon of Meyer lemon juice and zest of a whole one.  

Dark Chocolate Icing: 
Note: I recommend doubling it to make eaiser to spread evenly. 
4g / 2 tsp powdered gelatin or 2 sheets gelatin 
¼ cup (60g) heavy cream 
2.1 oz (5 Tbsp / 60g) granulated sugar 
¼ cup (50g) water1/3 cup (30g) unsweetened cocoa powder 

Soften the gelatin in cold water for 15 minutes. (if using powdered, use 2 tablespoons of water) Boil the rest of the ingredients and cook an additional 3 minutes after boiling. Add gelatin to the chocolate mixture. Mix well. Let cool while checking the texture regularly. As soon as the mixture is smooth and coats a spoon well (it is starting to gelify), use immediately. 
For the raspberry log: use 100 gr of white chocolate, milk instead of cream and no cocoa. 

For the chocolate fans: everything is explained very well by Alice Medrich with Julia Child in this tutorial. 

Lemon White Chocolate Raspberry Yule Log 

Thank you ladies for another tasty challenge! 



START RECIPE

POACHED QUINCE AND RED FRUIT CAKE   
December 11, 2008  
Poached Quince Cake  

This is going to be a short post I fear today. I can't shake this cold and can somebody tell me why it is 70F after midnight....talk about throwing a migraine into the loop!! It's December for crying out loud!! Time for mulled wine, sweaters, fireplaces, clementines, hot cocoa, pomegranates, and quinces. Instead the fall/winter produce stalls have to share their space with berries and juicy melons. Upside down, inside out...completely out of the box, which is kind of where I went with this cake. Innocent looking cake, filled with poached quinces, topped with berries, baked and served in a box used for Brie or Camembert instead. 

The idea came to me over lunch the other day as we were finishing the last of the Brie and while we were planning our friend J.'s birthday party for Friday. J. is a prankster. A good one for sure but it's pretty much non stop with him. A get together with him and his wife is never just that. On the ride to their house, we are always wondering what he's got in store, who will be involved and how long we are going to talk about it on the way back home. They're nice pranks but after so many years, we are all scheming on how and when to get him back. All in good fun. Well, except for a couple of us like F. who is ready for pay back since the day he found his motorcycle on the roof of his house...long story... 

Poached Quince Cake In Brie Box 

I figured that handing him a cheese box at dessert time was still a little obvious so I topped the cake with different fruits, strawberries, raspberries, pomegranate, grapes and glazed them all with some apple jelly. That way, he would still be unsure about what was underneath. I got B. fooled so I am hoping that will work too. Can't take credit for the look novelty as I inspired by the look of one of my pastry bad boy, Michalak. I had already decided to use my tried and true cake recipe but I could not pass on his cute presentation. And no, the cake did not smell of stinky cheese... 

Ever tried to apply fruit glaze or jelly to fruits over tart shells or cakes and they keep moving, rolling around and never staying put? Imagine applying glaze to a beautiful lemon curd tart topped with a gazillion rolling blueberries. Not that easy! Here is my trick for stress free glazing: warm up your glaze so that it is very liquid in consistency, fill a travel size spray bottle with it and spray your tart or cake with the glaze as quickly as possible. 
Photobucket 

Poached Quince And Red Fruit Cake: 

Makes 2 cakes, 4 inches round 

For the poached quince:  
1 quince, peeled, cored and sliced 
2 cups water 
1/4 cup (50gr) sugar 
3 cloves 
1 star anise 
1 cinnamon stick 
1 teaspoon lemon zest 

In a large saucepan set over medium high heat, place the quince and the remaining ingredients and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to a simmer and continue to cook the quince for about 45 minutes, until soft and pink. Remove the quince from the liquid and let cool to room temperature. 

For the cake: 
3 eggs 
1/2 cup (100gr) sugar 
1/2 cup (115gr) sour cream 
1 cup (135gr) cake flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
4 tablespoons (60 gr) butter, melted and cooled 

About one cup of mixed berries or any fruit of your liking 
About 1/2 cup apple jelly to glaze the fruits 

Preheat oven to 350F. Line the top and bottom part of a Brie or Camember box with parchment paper or aluminium foil. Coat with cooking spray and set aside. 
In a mixer, whip the eggs and sugar until light and fluffy. Add the sour cream and mix until incorporated. Add the flour, baking powder and melted butter and mix on medium high speed until all the ingredients are well blended and the batter is smooth. Stop the mixer and by hand fold in the poached quince. Divide the batter among the cake pans and bake for 25-30 minutes or until a knife inserted in the middle comes out clean. 
Let cool completely. Top the cakes with the fruits and apply the apple jelly, previously warmed up until spreadable. 


START RECIPE

Applebee’s Grilled Chicken Oriental Salad  
July 18, 2010 12 Comments 
Facebook3Tweet0Pin37Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Applebee’s Grilled Chicken Oriental Salad has to be one of my most requested recipes. Honestly, I can’t think of a recipe that has been requested more. Applebee’s has been serving the Grilled Chicken Oriental Salad for years now, and this is a restaurant that is known for swapping out their menu on a fairly regular basis. What makes this salad so special? Crisp rice noodles, toasted almonds, and fresh lettuce are served with an Asian-style dressing. 
applebees grilled chicken oriental salad recipe 

Applebee's Grilled Chicken Oriental Salad 
You might like: 
Senate Navy Bean Soup (this site) 
 Which star is your perfect match? (WomensForum) 
Anthony’s Coal Fired Wings (this site) 
McDonalds Tartar Sauce – Copycat Recipe (this site) 
Recommended by  
Applebee's Grilled Chicken Oriental Salad 
Author: CopyKat RecipesRecipe Type: Copycat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Salad RecipesPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 10 minutesServes: 1Applebee's Grilled Chicken Oriental Salad 
You can make your own Applebee’s Grilled Chicken Oriental salad at home. It is so tasty, and so easy to do. Best of all, you can customize this salad and put in the ingredients that you enjoy the most. 

Ingredients 
2 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1/2 cup sliced almonds 
6 to 8 cups romaine lettuce 
1/4 cup shredded carrots 
1/2 cup crispy rice noodles 
Applebee's Oriental Salad Dressing 
Directions  
Heat the grill to medium, or heat a cast-iron skillet or grill pan over medium heat. Place the chicken breasts between two sheets of plastic wrap and gently pound them to 3/8-inch thick. Brush with the olive oil and season them with salt and pepper. Grill for 5 to 7 minutes on each side, until cooked through. Transfer to a plate to rest for 4 to 5 minute before slicing. 

Toast the almonds in a small dry skillet over medium heat.  them carefully—there is a fine line between toasted almonds and burnt almonds! Shake the pan gently. When you begin to smell the almonds, toast for a few seconds more, then immediately place the almonds on a paper towel. Allow them to cool for a moment or two. 

Assemble salads by first putting down the lettuce, 3 to 4 cups per serving. Sprinkle each with 2 tablespoons of the carrots, 1/4 cup crispy rice noodles, and 1/4 cup toasted almonds. Arrange the chicken on top. Serve with plenty of the Applebee’s Oriental Salad Dressing. 

Variations 

Now, Applebee’s Grilled Chicken Oriental Salad is a delicious salad, but there are a few variations that I like to make. I like to change out the lettuce and use a mesclun mix. I also like to add a few mandarin orange sections and sprinkle some thinly sliced green onion or scallion on top, for my personal version of the Applebee’s Grilled Chicken Oriental Salad. What changes do you like to make when you make a salad? Do you like any unusual ingredients on your salads? 




START RECIPE

Applebees Queso Blanco  
June 21, 2015 13 Comments  
Facebook11Tweet0Pin81Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Applebees Queso Blanco is a favorite appetizer of so many. This white queso recipe is smooth, creamy, and has just that little bit of spice. 

Applebees Queso Blanco from CopyKat.com 


White Queso dips, or queso blanco may at first seem like a mystery, I promise, it isn't. A quick trip to the deli and you will be in the queso making business. I don't know why, but white queso seems to be very perplexing. Many of the cheese sauces you find in restaurants have American cheese as their base. Before you recoil in horror consider that American cheese has its place. Quite honestly it does a fantastic job of melting, and making cheese sauces. You may not have known it comes in the very familiar yellow variety, but it also comes in the white variety, and it is the base of these cheese sauce. 

What makes this copycat recipe special is that we are using fresh onions, jalapenos, and tomatoes to give this queso its added flavor. Nothing is canned, but this queso has its spice from fresh jalapenos. When working with them you may want to wear some gloves, they can burn your fingers. If you like your queso hot you can add more chopped jalapenos. You could also not seed them and get a little more of that spice. 

I served this recipe up with some corn chips, but honestly I think this queso would taste great spooned over enchiladas, or even served over a fresh chimichanga. When serving queso at a party I like to put mine in a Fondue Pot. This way the queso stays nice and warm the whole time. 

Looking for more Applebees CopyKat Recipes? Be sure to check out these recipes. 
Applebees Pico de Gallo  
Applebees Quesadilla  
Applebees Bourbon Street Steak  
Applebees Oriental Salad Dressing 
Applebees Grilled Oriental Salad 

You might like: 
Hooters Chicken Wing Sauce (this site) 
Taco Bell Baja Blast Freeze (this site) 
Top 25 Recipes from CopyKat.com 2015 (this site) 
 Which star is your perfect match? (WomensForum) 
Recommended by  
Applebees Queso Blanco 
Author: Stephanie Manley via CopyKat.comRecipe Type: AppetizerPrep time: 5 minutesCook time: 15 minutesServes: 8Applebees Queso Blanco  
Make your copycat recipe for Applebees Queso Blanco, you will love how easy and how tasty it is to make this queso. 

Ingredients  
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
2 tablespoons finely minced jalapeno pepper that has been cored and seeded (divided use) 
1/3 cup finely chopped white onion 
1 pound white American cheese 
8 ounces Monterey Jack cheese 
1/2 cup half and half milk 
1/3 to 1/2 cup chopped tomato 
2 tablespoons cilantro chopped 
Directions  
In a medium sized pot over low - medium heat add vegetable oil, 1 1/2 tablespoons chopped jalapeno pepper and white onion. Saute onion and peppers until the onion becomes translucent. Chop cheese into large pieces, add all cheeses and half and half. Reduce heat to low and stir the cheese so it melts. 

When all of the cheese has melted add the fresh tomatoes, stir the tomatoes in. Stir in half of the cilantro. Just before serving garnish the queso with remaining cilantro and chopped jalapenos. 




START RECIPE


Arby’s Sauce  
February 13, 2009 13 Comments  
Facebook0Tweet0Pin37Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
This is ketchup with a kick. No one does this better than Arby's. We did find that Lea and Perrins gave the best flavor for this sauce. 

You might like: 
 Which star is your perfect match? (WomensForum) 
Stuffed Cabbage Rolls – just like Mom used to make, well just like my Mom used to make. (this site) 
Chili’s Chicken Enchilada Soup (this site) 
How to Make Taco Bell Tacos – Copycat Recipes (this site) 
Recommended by  
Arby's Sauce 
Author: CopyKat.comRecipe Type: CopyKat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Dips/SaucesPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 10 minutesServes: 10 
This is a wonderful sauce on sandwiches it's a little spicy but very good! 

Ingredients  
1 cup Water 
1/2 cup Katsup 
2 tablespoon Brown Sugar 
1/4 cup White Vinegar 
3/4 teaspoon Onion Powder 
3/4 teaspoon Garlic Powder 
1/2 teaspoon Paprika 
3 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce (Lea and Perrins) 
1/8 teaspoon Salt 
1/8 teaspoon Cayenne Pepper 
Corn Starch Mixture (thickening mixture) 
1 tablespoon Corn Starch 
2 tablespoon Water 
Mix well set aside. 
Directions  
Place all sauce ingredients in a blender and blend on high speed for 15 - 20 seconds. Pour ingredients into a small saucepan, heat on medium low. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, stirring several times. After twenty minutes add corn starch mixture, stir well. When sauce begins to thickens let simmer on a very low temperature for ten minutes. Remove from heat and let cool. 

Mixture will be similar in thickness to steak sauce. Store in a covered container in the refrigerator. This sauce is a nice change on hamburgers or pastrami, and great dipping sauce for hot wings. 




START RECIPE

Arby’s Horsey Sauce 
November 16, 2014 26 Comments  
Facebook13Tweet0Pin96Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Arby's Horsey Sauce is a classic sauce that we all love. Arby's has many great items on the Arby's menu. This sauce has just the right amount of heat, and it is easy to make at home. 

Arby's Horsey Sauce From CopyKat.com 


Growing up we went to Arby's once in awhile. I always thought this place was better than an ordinary hamburger place. They had two sauces that are amazing. I personally love Arby's sauce, it is a spicier ketchup that goes well with French fries, and just about anything you poor this sauce over. I also like their spicy Horsey sauce, I think it was the first time I tried anything with horseradish in it. 

I have seen other recipes online for the Arby's Horsey sauce but I was always a little disappointed in the results. While you can use plain old horseradish, and it works well. If you recall this sauce has no texture, it is creamy, with some heat, and a little bit of sweet. I found that by using a creamy horseradish sold in the condiment section of the grocery store you could get something a little closer than the sauce made with fresh horseradish. 

This sauce will stay fresh once made for about 7 to 10 days. I think it tastes a little better once it has had the chance to sit and the flavors get to mingle a bit. The flavor, in my opinion, tastes even better the day after you make the sauce. 

Other uses for Arby's Horsey Sauce 
You might wonder how else you can use this classic sauce. You can use it on every day sandwiches, it tastes wonderful on a homemade hamburger, and I even like to serve a little bit of this with some roast beef. 

More Arby's Menu Item Favorites 
Arby's Cherry Turnover 

Arby's Grilled Chicken Pecan Salad 

Arby's Sauce 

You might like: 
How to Make Taco Bell Tacos – Copycat Recipes (this site) 
Better Than Papa John’s Garlic Dipping Sauce (this site) 
Anthony’s Coal Fired Wings (this site) 
 Which star is your perfect match? (WomensForum) 
Recommended by  
Arby's Horsey Sauce 
Author: Stephanie Manley @CopyKat.comRecipe Type: SaucePrep time: 2 minutesCook time: 3 minutesServes: 10Arby's Horsey Sauce 
Make your own Arby's Horsey sauce with this copycat recipe. 

Ingredients 
1 cup mayonnaise 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1/4 cup creamed horseradish or 2 tablespoons fresh horseraddish 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
Directions 
In a small bowl combine mayonnaise, sugar, creamed horseradish, and salt. Stir until well combined. For best flavor allow to rest in a covered container in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. For optimal results allow to rest overnight before serving. 

Print Recipe  




START RECIPE

Arby’s Grilled Chicken and Pecan Salad 
July 26, 2011 66 Comments 
Facebook12Tweet0Pin99Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe  
Arby's Grilled Chicken and Pecan Salad is a new menu item at Arby's. Arby's is known for their hearty roast beef sandwiches, but they do so much more than roast beef. They make a delicious nut and fruit filled grilled chicken salad like no one else. Many places skimp on the nuts when they go into a recipe, well, Arby's knows how to make a chicken salad that is packed with all sorts of tasty ingredients. You can try one of their Market Fresh Grilled Chicken and Pecan Salad sandwiches at home. 

Recreate the Arby's Grilled Chicken Pecan Salad at home with this easy copycat recipe.    
 
You don't need to limit yourself to just a sandwich with this chicken salad; you could put this in a large tortilla for a wrap. This chicken salad would go well in a submarine bun; I loved this with toasted sourdough bread. Honestly, this goes well only scooped out and placed on a salad. If you don't happen to have any grilled chicken around, you could use left over chicken that you may have from a baked chicken. If you need to grill your chicken, I will grill up about 1 to 1 1/4 pounds for this recipe. This recipe is very flexible, you could add a little more or a little less of any of these ingredients, and you will come up with a great tasting chicken salad sandwich. 

You can recreate the Arby's Grilled Chicken Pecan salad with this easy copycat recipe.  

While they do not toast their pecans, I think you could easily bring this salad to the next level by toasting the pecans in a skillet over medium-high heat just until they become fragrant. Allow the pecans to cool completely before preparing the chicken salad. 

You can recreate this famous Arby's Grilled Chicken and Pecan salad with this copycat recipe.  

Do you love Arby's? Be sure to check out these other copycat recipes. 
Chocolate Turnovers 
Arby's Horsey Sauce 
Cherry Turnovers 

You might like: 
McDonalds Tartar Sauce – Copycat Recipe (this site) 
Stuffed Cabbage Rolls – just like Mom used to make, well just like my Mom used to make. (this site) 
Panda Express Chow Mein (this site) 
 Which Evil Character Are You? (WomensForum) 
Recommended by  
Arby's Grilled Chicken and Pecan Salad 
Author: CopyKat RecipesRecipe Type: Chicken Recipes, Copycat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Salad Recipes, Main dish RecipesPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 10 minutesServes: 4Arby's Grilled Chicken and Pecan Salad 

Ingredients 
2 1/2 cups of grilled chicken breast cut into small pieces 
1 cup of diced red apple 
1 cup chopped pecans 
1 cup of grapes sliced in half 
1/2 cup chopped celery 
1/2 to 3/4 cup of mayonnaise 
1 tablespoon of lemon juice (juice of one small lemon) 
salt and pepper to taste 
Directions 
In a medium sized bowl add diced apple, and one tablespoon of lemon juice.  Stir lemon juice into apples coating them well.  This will help keep the apples from turning brown.  Add chicken, sliced grapes, diced celery, and pecans.  Mix well until everything is mixed through.  Add 1/2 cup mayonnaise, if the mixture is too dry you can add another 1/4 cup of mayonnaise.  Add salt and pepper to taste.  Allow flavors to marry in a covered bowl in the refrigerator for about 1 hour before serving. 

To prepare sandwich like Arby's use thickly sliced wheat bread, add a couple of slices of green leaf lettuce, and add about 1 cup of chicken salad to the sandwich. 

While they do not toast their pecans, I think you could easily bring this salad to the next level by toasting the pecans in a skillet on medium high heat just until they become fragrant.  Allow the pecans to cool completely before preparing the chicken salad. 

In a medium sized bowl add diced apple, and one tablespoon of lemon juice.  Stir lemon juice into apples coating them well.  This will help keep the apples from turning brown.  Add chicken, sliced grapes, diced celery, and pecans.  Mix well until everything is mixed through.  Add 1/2 cup mayonnaise, if the mixture is too dry you can add another 1/4 cup of mayonnaise.  Add salt and pepper to taste.  Allow flavors to marry in a covered bowl in the refrigerator for about 1 hour before serving. 

To prepare sandwich like Arby's use thickly sliced wheat bread, add a couple of slices of green leaf lettuce, and add about 1 cup of chicken salad to the sandwich. 

While they do not toast their pecans, I think you could easily bring this salad to the next level by toasting the pecans in a skillet on medium high heat just until they become fragrant.  Allow the pecans to cool completely before preparing the chicken salad. 

Print Recipe 

While they do not toast their pecans, I think you could easily bring this salad to the next level by toasting the pecans in a skillet on medium high heat just until they become fragrant.  Allow the pecans to cool completely before preparing the chicken salad 




START RECIPE

COPYCAT BJ’S PIZOOKIE PIZZA COOKIE 
By Jen May 26, 2015  

Pin 
18K 
+1 
476 
Share 
135 
Email 
Tweet 
SHARES 18K 
If you are a fan of the famous Pizookie while dining at BJ’s, you are going to love this CopyCat BJ’s Pizookie Recipe. With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost. 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

COPYCAT BJ’S PIZOOKIE 
This Pizza-Cookie is one of those desserts that delivers both cuteness and yumminess. If you have never had the chance to enjoy a Pizookie or Pizza Cookie as it is sometimes called, now is the time. You can whip this tasty dessert up in no time at all, right at home. No need to rush off to an expensive resturant to enjoy this tasty dessert. 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 
 
MY LATEST RECIPES 
Error loading player: 
Network error 
BJ’s restaurant and a few other chains serve up these delish cookie that are made in a pan. They are perfect for sharing with a small group. There is no way to eat this pan of filling cookie all by yourself. I will admit that I did make a couple of these over the weekend and I have been nibbling on the one I made for myself. It will probably last me a few more days, lol. 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

The ingredients that are needed for this CopyCat BJ’s Pizookie are the same ingredients you will find in any basic chocolate chip cookie recipe. You will just be making all of it in a cast iron skillet or other round baking dish. The most difficult part in making your cookie will be ing it bake, ha ha. It only bakes for a few minutes but seems like forever. The chocolate chip cookie aroma will have you craving cookie. 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

INGREDIENTS  
1/2 cup Butter 
1/2 cup Sugar 
1/2 cup Brown Sugar 
1 tsp Vanilla 
1 Egg 
1 1/2 cup Flour 
1/2 tsp Baking Soda 
1/4 tsp Salt 
1/2 cup Chocolate Chips 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

DIRECTIONS 
Preheat oven to 350. 
Place small skillet or 8? round pan over low heat and melt butter. 
Add sugar, brown sugar, beaten egg and vanilla. Mix well. 
Add flour, baking soda and salt. Mix until well blended. 
Add in chocolate chips and stir to evenly distribute. 
Bake 15-20 minutes or until golden brown. 
Allow to cool 10 minutes. 
Cut into slices and top with vanilla ice cream. 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

There is nothing better than a chocolate chip cookie a la mode. I even added on some chocolate sauce to kick up the deliciousness but it really is not needed. 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

Do you enjoy making copycat recipes at home? If so be sure to check out all of the awesome copycat recipes I have shared with you here. CopyCat recipes have saved me a bundle. 

Copycat BJ's Pizookie- With just a few ingredients and very little time, you can enjoy a Pizza Cookie right at home for a fraction of the cost.Save 

Print 
CopyCat BJ’s Pazookie Pizza Cookie 
Ingredients  

1/2 cup Butter 
1/2 cup Sugar 
1/2 cup Brown Sugar 
1 tsp Vanilla 
1 Egg 
1 1/2 cup Flour 
1/2 tsp Baking Soda 
1/4 tsp Salt 
1/2 cup Chocolate Chips 
Instructions 

Preheat oven to 350. 
Place small skillet or 8 round pan over low heat and melt butter. 
Add sugar, brown sugar, beaten egg and vanilla. Mix well. 
Add flour, baking soda and salt. Mix until well blended. 
Add in chocolate chips and stir to evenly distribute. 
Bake 15-20 minutes or until golden brown. 
Allow to cool 10 minutes. 
Cut into slices and top with vanilla ice cream. 
If you are a fan of chocolate chip recipes be sure to check out these recipes I have shared… 



START RECIPE

BUFFALO WILD WINGS COPYCAT WINGS 
Buffalo Wild Wings Copycat WingsPin this image on Pinterest 
I am not sure there is someone who loves wings more than my husband. During my life, wings have been hit or miss for me. I enjoy the buffalo flavor, I don’t enjoy the hard to eat mess. But I guess that’s half the enjoyment of wings, they are messy. Anyway, it was my husband that introduced me to Buffalo Wild Wings and needless to say, the ole B dubs has me a changed woman.  

Ever since I first tried their many flavor of wings, I’ve been wanting to re-create them. My personal favorites include their traditional (in medium), spicy garlic, and asian zing. But seriously, the spicy garlic… life changing! So if you’re a wings or B dubs fan, you’ll enjoy this one! Make these for your next party or sports get together, you’ll be sure to have a crowd pleaser!  

Spicy Garlic Wings 
copycat spicy garlic wings 
Save RecipePrint 
Prep Time5 min Cook Time10 min 
Ingredients 
1 cup Frank's Red Hot Sauce 
1/3 cup vegetable oil 
2 teaspoons sugar 
2 teaspoons garlic powder 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1tablespoon butter 
1 egg yolk 
3 teaspoons water 
3 teaspoons cornstarch 
1-2 dozen cooked wings 
Instructions  
Combine first 8 ingredients in a small sauce pan and stir to mix. Heat over medium heat. Reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Remove from heat and allow to cool. Combine egg yolk, water, and cornstarch in a small bowl and whisk until fully combined. Whisk mixture into cooled sauce. 
Toss cooled wings in sauce and serve! 
By Prairie Californian 
Adapted from Around My Family Table 
Medium Buffalo Wings 
medium heat, traditional buffalo wings 
Save RecipePrint 
Prep Time5 min Cook Time10 min 
Ingredients  
1 cup Frank’s cayenne pepper sauce 
1/3 cup vegetable oil 
1 teaspoon sugar 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1/8 teaspoon pepper 
1 egg yolk 
3 teaspoons water 
3 teaspoons cornstarch 
1-2 dozen cooked wings 
Instructions  
Combine first 8 ingredients in a small sauce pan and stir to mix. Heat over medium heat. Reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Remove from heat and allow to cool. Combine egg yolk, water, and cornstarch in a small bowl and whisk until fully combined. Whisk mixture into cooled sauce. 
Toss cooled wings in sauce and serve! 
By Prairie Californian  
Adapted from Epic Portions 
Asian Zing Wings 
asian style wings 
Save RecipePrint 
Prep Time5 min Cook Time10 min 
Ingredients 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 
4 teaspoons rice wine vinegar 
1/2 cup corn syrup 
1/3 cup sugar 
1/4 cup Sriracha (or more) 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 
1 egg yolk 
3 teaspoons water 
3 teaspoons cornstarch 
1-2 dozen cooked wings 
Instructions 
Combine first 10 ingredients in a small sauce pan and stir to mix. Heat over medium heat. Reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Remove from heat and allow to cool. Combine egg yolk, water, and cornstarch in a small bowl and whisk until fully combined. Whisk mixture into cooled sauce. 
Toss cooled wings in sauce and serve 
By Prairie Californian 
Adapted from Epic Portions 




START RECIPE

CopyCat} Spicy Garlic Chicken Wing Sauce  
Pin  
Share 
Tweet 
+1 
Stumble 
Yum 
Email 
SHARES 4K 
My family is hopelessly addicted to chicken wings. Give me spicy…I don’t care the flavor as long as it’s spicy. The spicier the better! The kids on the other hand prefer BBQ chicken wings.  I say just give them a few years and they will love my copycat Spicy Garlic Chicken Wing Sauce from Buffalo Wild Wings. 

{CopyCat} Spicy Garlic Chicken Wing Sauce from Buffalo Wild WingsSave 

 We go to BWW several times a month and we ALWAYS order the spicy garlic sauce…it’s my favorite.  I dip my fries in it too!  Addicted is probably an understatement. 

Of course with the big football game coming up I thought it would be fun to make a homemade version of my favorite sauce to avoid the craziness of going out.  If you are having a party or just planning a small viewing then these need to be on your menu.  Make the sauce up a few days in advance and game day prep will be a piece of cake! 

{CopyCat} Spicy Garlic Chicken Wing Sauce from Buffalo Wild WingsSave 

Although, if I’m gonna be honest then I have to tell you I only  the Super Bowl for the commercials….it’s 3 weeks away and I have no idea who is even in the running to be in the Super Bowl.  I really don’t care.  <Gasp>  Shocking, I know.  Now, if you want to talk baseball and world series then I’m your gal….but that would be a totally different menu, wouldn’t it! 

We always end up a party, despite my protests but I usually have a great time in the kitchen with the ladies chatting and hanging out until the commercials and half time come on! 

Do you  the Super Bowl?  I’d love to hear what you usually munch on during the game! 

{COPYCAT} SPICY GARLIC CHICKEN WING SAUCE 

INGREDIENTS 
1	cup Frank's Red Hot Sauce 
1/2	cup vegetable oil 
2	tsps sugar 
2	tsps garlic powder 
1/2	tsp ground black pepper 
1/2	tsp cayenne pepper 
1	ts Worcestershire sauce 
1	egg yolk 
2	tsps water 
2	tsps cornstarch 
2	dozen wing pieces 
8-10	cups vegetable oil or shortening 
INSTRUCTIONS  
Combine first 7 ingredients in a small sauce pan. Heat over medium heat until boiling, stirring often. Reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes. 
Remove from heat and allow to cool for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, combine egg yolk, water, and cornstarch in a small bowl and whisk until fully combined and then whisk into cooled sauce. 
TO COOK WINGS: 
Heat oil in a large fryer or stock pot to 350F. Slowly add wing pieces and cook for 10-14 minutes or until light brown. Carefully remove from oil and drain on a baking rack or plate covered in brown paper sacks to absorb any extra oil. 
Toss slightly cooled wings in warm sauce. Enjoy! 




START RECIPE

PAN FRIED TILAPIA WITH BONEFISH GRILL’S CHIMICHURRI SAUCE  
posted by AGGIES KITCHEN on FEBRUARY 23, 2009 27 comments »  
Tweet 
Share 
Pin 
Yum 
Stumble 
SHARES 35 
Step up your fish recipe with this easy Pan Fried Tilapia with Bonefish Grill’s Chimichurri Sauce. 

Pan Fried Tilapia with Bonefish Grill's Chimichurri Sauce 

If you like trying new seafood recipes, then you will enjoy my next few posts. I am really trying to eat lighter these days (birthday cupcakes yesterday don’t count)…so fish and shrimp will be showing up on the weekly menu more often. 

Recently we went to one of my favorite restaurants, Bonefish Grill. This place has the freshest fish, and everything we try there is always delicious. The last time we were there for dinner, I had Grilled Grouper with a Chimichurri Sauce that was out of this world. I thought about it for days. 

Pan Fried Tilapia with Bonefish Grill's Chimichurri Sauce 

I wanted to recreate my delicious meal recently and was so happy to discover the recipe for the Chimichurri sauce on Bonefish Grill’s website. Even better, they have several great recipes posted that I would love to try! I think the Pan Asian sauce might be next! 

Report this ad 

Pan Fried Tilapia with Bonefish Grill's Chimichurri Sauce 

PRINT RECIPE 
PAN FRIED TILAPIA WITH BONEFISH GRILL'S CHIMICHURRI SAUCE 

INGREDIENTS: 
Pan Fried Tilapia 

4 Tilapia Fillets 
Bbq seasoning 
salt and fresh ground black pepper 
2 tsp olive oil 
Bonefish Grill Chimichurri Sauce 
Chimichurri Sauce 

8 cloves garlic, minced 
1 tsp. plus Kosher Salt 
1 tsp. oregano, dry leaves 
1 tsp. black pepper, ground 
1 tsp. red pepper flakes 
Finely grated lemon zest from 3 lemons 
4 oz. fresh lemon juice 
1 bunch flat leaf (Italian) parsley 
1 cup olive oil 
 
DIRECTIONS: 

Report this ad 

Pan Fried Tilapia 

Sprinkle each fish fillet on both sides with bbq seasoning, salt and fresh ground pepper. 
Add 2 tsp olive oil into preheated pan over medium high heat. Place tilapia into pan and cook for about 3-4 minutes. Carefully flip fish over and continue to cook for another 3-4 minutes or until fish looks cooked through (will be white and flaky in middle). 
Drizzle about 2 tablespoons of Chimichurri Sauce over each piece of fish. Serve with steamed veggies and enjoy! 
Chimichurri Sauce 

Combine all ingredients in a food processor and pulse chop until all ingredients are approximately 1/8 inch in size. Add Italian parsley and pulse chop until parsley is 1/8 inch in size. Add the olive oil and blend in quickly. (Do not over blend) 
Allow the sauce to marinate for 30 minutes before serving. 
Chimichurri Sauce Recipe from Bonefish Grill 

FOLLOW AGGIESKITCHEN ON INSTAGRAM and show us what recipes you are making from the blog! Use the hashtag aggieskitchen - I'd love to see what you are cooking up! 

Pan Fried Tilapia with Bonefish Grill's Chimichurri Sauce  
Check out my next post to see what I did with the leftover Bonefish Grill’s Chimichurri Sauce… 



START RECIPE

This SKINNY BANG BANG SHRIMP 
is loaded with flavor but low on calories! Delicious, easy, and crave worthy. It will be an instant favorite for your family! 

Welcome to the first edition of Weekend Slimdown! I’ll admit that I LOVE all things cheese, chocolate, and fattening…but I really want to learn healthier recipes.  I’ve decided to devote at least one recipe a week to being healthy, and will most likely be posting them on the weekends.  The weekends are usually the time Pat and I go crazy on the calories, so I’m hoping this will help us get back on track with a healthy lifestyle.  Let me tell you, its HARD to have a food blog and not eat, eat, eat.  So, here goes nothing! 

skinny bang bang shrimp! made with greek yogurt. PERFECT! 
WEEKEND SLIMDOWN – SKINNY BANG BANG SHRIMP 
The first recipe for Weekend Slimdown was a huge success.  Pat pretty much licked these skewers clean.  You would never know that each skewer of 5 shrimp is only around 50 calories.  Amazing! 

skinny bang bang shrimp! made with greek yogurt. PERFECT!The secret ingredient is greek yogurt.  Chobani greek yogurt is our favorite, it is so creamy and delicious.  It can be a cooking substitute in SO many dishes, and it worked like a charm for this sauce.  This sauce would also be great on chicken, I actually doubled the recipe and am going to try it in some other things tomorrow.  It is delicious. 

skinny bang bang shrimp! made with greek yogurt. PERFECT! 

Report this ad 

skinny bang bang shrimp! made with greek yogurt. PERFECT!Bang Bang Shrimp used to be my very favorite appetizer to get at Bonefish Grill when I lived in Jacksonville.  I always felt guilty getting it after I made the mistake of looking up the al information (830 calories…yikes).  Now, I’m all for a calorie splurge once in a while, but if you can create a delicious copycat meal at home that’s actually healthy…well that’s a win, win. 

Report this ad 

skinny bang bang shrimp! made with greek yogurt. PERFECT! 

skinny bang bang shrimp! made with greek yogurt. PERFECT!I think this would make a great and romantic appetizer for a Valentine’s Day meal at home. You really can’t go wrong with grilled shrimp and this sauce.  You have got to taste this sauce! 

skinny bang bang shrimp! made with greek yogurt. PERFECT! 

I hope you enjoy Weekend Slimdown! If you have any suggestions for good and healthy recipes, I would love for you to shoot them my way! Click HERE for an easy way to send them in. Healthy cooking is something new to me, but I’m really excited about it. Check out some of our other healthy favorites after the recipe card.  Enjoy! 

skinny bang bang shrimp! made with greek yogurt. PERFECT! 

Report this ad 

SERVES 10 SKEWERS 

SKINNY BANG BANG SHRIMP 
skinny version of one of my favorite appetizers! delicious! 

AUTHOR: THE COOKIE ROOKIE 

Recipe Image 
SAVE RECIPE PRINT RECIPE 
MY RECIPES MY LISTS MY CALENDAR 
INGREDIENTS  

Report this ad  

1 lb shrimp (about 50 shrimp), cooked or uncooked. shelled or deveined. 
10 skewer sticks (optional) 
3 T chobani plain greek yogurt 
3 T chopped green onion, plus more for garnish 
1 1/2 T sweet chili sauce (I used Franks brand) 
1/2-3/4 T sriracha sauce 
Get Ingredients Powered by Chicory 
INSTRUCTIONS  

(If you're grilling on a grill, be sure to soak wooded skewers a couple minutes in water to avoid burning) 
combine yogurt, onion, sweet chili sauce, and sriracha in a bowl and stir well. set aside. (if you want to make the sauce a bit thicker, do 2 T yogurt and 1 T light mayo) 
place 5 shrimp on each skewer 
If shrimp are raw: 
grill on each side for 2-3 minutes, until opaque and cooked through 
If shrimp are pre-cooked: 
Place shrimp skewers on a baking sheet and bake at 350 for 5-10 minutes 
Brush each hot skewer liberally with the sauce, on both sides 
serve immediately 
enjoy! 
Recipe Type: appetizer/main course 




START RECIPE

Boston Market Sweet Potato Casserole  
December 13, 2011 145 Comments  
Facebook37Tweet0Pin210Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Boston Market Sweet Potato Casserole has to be one of my favorite ways to make candied sweet potatoes. Now, if you don’t live near a Boston Market restaurant, you can either drive far or make your CopyKat recipe for these holiday favorites. 

Make your own delicious Boston Market Sweet Potato Casserole from scratch with this easy recipe. 

You don’t have to buy this sweet potato casserole from the restaurant. To make these, with a little bit of elbow grease, you can have a great-tasting sweet potato casserole any time of the year. This sweet potato recipe combines a thick oatmeal cookie–like crust, fluffy melting marshmallows, and a sweet and savory potato layer. It is hard to resist this dish. 

You are going to love the Boston Market Sweet Potato Casserole when you make it from scratch with this easy copycat recipe.  

We are going to make this whole thing from scratch. Don’t let the idea of cooking from scratch intimidate you. It is easy to do, and you can even  the video see how it is done. But if you don’t want to bake your sweet potatoes, you can buy cans of pureed sweet potatoes, both work equally well. 

Make Ahead Notes 
If you want to make this ahead of time, I suggest you bake this fully, and then reheat the 2nd day in the oven. The raw eggs in this dish make this undesirable to mix ahead 1 day and to bake the second day. 

You are going to love this copycat recipe, make your own delicious Boston Market Sweet Potato casserole from scratch.  

Check out these copycat holiday favorites 
Quick and Easy Broccoli Rice Casserole 
How to Make Roast Beef in the Oven 
Rudy's Creamed Corn 

You might like: 
Stuffed Cabbage Rolls – just like Mom used to make, well just like my Mom used to make. (this site) 
How to Make Taco Bell Tacos – Copycat Recipes (this site) 
 Can We Guess Which Movie Villain You Are? (WomensForum) 
Chick-Fil-A Frosted Lemonade (this site) 
Recommended by  
Boston Market Sweet Potato Casserole 
Author: CopyKat RecipesRecipe Type: Casserole Recipes, Copycat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Featured, Video, Holiday RecipesPrep time: 20 minutesCook time: 1 hour, 30 minutesServes: 10Boston Market Sweet Potato Casserole 
You can make Boston Market Sweet potato casserole just like they do. This thick oatmeal cookie-like crust resting on the top of wonderfully spiced sweet potatoes can be made in your own kitchen. 

Ingredients  
Casserole 
4 1/2 to 5 pounds fresh sweet potatoes (yams) or 2 (40-ounce) cans sweet potatoes (yams) 
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) butter 
2 large eggs, lightly beaten 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
1/2 cup dark brown sugar 
1/4 cup heavy cream 
Nonstick cooking spray 
Oatmeal Cookie Crust 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 
1 cup dark brown sugar 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1 cup quick-cooking oats 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/4 pound (1 stick) butter, at room temperature 
2 cups miniature marshmallows 
Directions  
Casserole  

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Wrap sweet potatoes in foil, place them on a baking sheet, and bake for about 1 hour. After 1 hour, test by piercing with a fork; if you can pierce them easily, they are done baking. If not, bake them a little longer and test again. Allow the sweet potatoes to cool until you can handle them, remove foil, and remove skins by simply pushing off the skins from the flesh of the potato. Place the cooked potatoes into a large bowl. If using canned sweet potatoes, skip the baking. Just open the cans and drain off the syrup. 
 
Mash the sweet potatoes with the butter using a pastry blender or a potato masher until mostly smooth. Add the eggs, salt, cinnamon, vanilla, and nutmeg and beat until you have a uniform mixture. Add the brown sugar and cream and mix well. 

Oatmeal Cookie Crust 

Combine the flour, brown sugar, salt, oats, and cinnamon in a medium bowl and stir together well. Stir in the butter with a fork until you have a crumbly mixture. 

If you had turned off the oven, heat it again to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat a 9 x 13-inch baking pan with cooking spray. Spreading the sweet potatoes in the pan. Top with the marshmallows, then crumble the oatmeal crust on top of the marshmallows. Bake 30 to 45 minute. 



START RECIPE

Boston Market Squash Casserole  
February 7, 2009 19 Comments 
Facebook7Tweet0Pin210Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
The Boston Market Squash Casserole is delicious, now you can recreate their famous squash casserole at home. 

You can recreate this Boston Market Squash Casserole at home.    

Are you looking for a good side dish? If you love squash, this may be the perfect recipe for you. This Boston Market menu item is made with basic ingredients you can buy at the grocery store. This casserole is made with squash, zucchini, cornbread mix, onions, and more. 

Ingredients for the Boston Market Squash Casserole.  You can prepare this easy copycat recipe at home.  

This copycat recipe for Boston Market Squash Casserole makes several servings so this is perfect for a large gathering. You can make this casserole ahead of time. If you cook this casserole completely and then allow it to cool, you can store this in the refrigerator, and reheat when you need to serve this recipe. 

You can enjoy this Boston Market Squash Casserole anytime with this copycat recipe.  

You might like: 
 Can We Guess Which Movie Villain You Are? (WomensForum) 
Benihana’s Hibatchi Steak (this site) 
Longhorn Steakhouse Mushroom Truffle Bisque (this site) 
Pizza Hut Cavatini (this site) 
Recommended by  
Boston Market Squash Casserole 
Author: CopyKat.comRecipe Type: Casserole Recipes, CopyKat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat RecipesPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 1 hourServes: 8Boston Market Squash Casserole 
You love this Boston Market now you can make this casserole at home! 

Ingredients  
4 1/2 cusp zucchini (diced) 
4 1/2 cups yellow squash (diced) 
1 1/2 cups yellow onion (chopped) 
1 Box Jiffy corn muffin mix (prepare as directed on box) 
3/4 cup of butter 
8 ounces American cheese (diced, use a store brand not Velveeta) 
3 cubes of chicken bouillon 
1 teaspoon garlic (minced) 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground pepper 
1/2 teaspoon thyme  
1 tablespoon parsley (chopped) 

Directions 
Prepare Jiffy Mix as directed, set aside to cool. Place zucchini and yellow squash in a large sauce pan and add just enough water to cover. Cook on medium low heat just until tender, remove from heat. Drain squash, reserve one cup of water for casserole. On medium low temperature place all of the butter in large sauce pan and saute the onions until the onions turn clear, add salt, pepper, thyme, and parsley . Add chicken bouillon cubes and garlic to onions, stir. Add drained squash and diced cheese, stir. Crumble corn bread in squash and pour the reserved cup of water and mix well. 

Place squash mixture in a 13x11 baking pan that has been sprayed with a non stick spray. Cover casserole and place in a preheated oven at 350 degrees. Bake for 50 - 60 minutes. Remove cover the last 20 minutes of baking time. 
We found that this casserole is a great replacement for stuffing or potatoes. 



START RECIPE

California Pizza Kitchen Original BBQ Pizza  
– you can make this special dish at home, our version of the recipe is no secret. 
February 3, 2009 2 Comments 
Facebook0Tweet0Pin4Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
California Pizza Kitchen was one of the first places to make really unique pizzas.  This pizza features chicken, cilantro, and Barbeque sauce.  The California Pizza Kitchen has two great cookbooks. 
The California Pizza Kitchen Cookbook. 

barbeque chicken pizza 

California Pizza Kitchen Original BBQ Pizza 
You might like: 
Better Than Papa John’s Garlic Dipping Sauce (this site) 
 Can We Guess Which Movie Villain You Are? (WomensForum) 
Top 25 Recipes from CopyKat.com 2015 (this site) 
Stuffed Cabbage Rolls – just like Mom used to make, well just like my Mom used to make. (this site) 
Recommended by  
California Pizza Kitchen Original BBQ Pizza 
Author: CopyKat.comRecipe Type: Appetizer Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Main dish Recipes, Snack RecipesPrep time: 15 minutesCook time: 10 minutesServes: 6California Pizza Kitchen Original BBQ Pizza 
BBQ Pizza is a wonderful twist on your ordinary pizza, everyone will love the different flavor. 

Ingredients  
3-6 pieces boneless/skinless chicken breasts cut into 1/4 inch cubes 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
2 tablespoons favorite BBQ sauce (we use a spicy-sweet sauce). 
For the pizza 
1 basic pizza dough 
Cornmeal, semolina or flour for handling 
1/2 cup favorite BBQ sauce (we use a spicy-sweet sauce). 
2 tablespoons shredded smoked Gouda cheese 
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese 
1/4 cup small red-onion, sliced into 1/8 inch pieces 
2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 

Directions 
In a large frying pan, cook the chicken in olive oil over medium high heat until just cooked, 5 to 6 minutes. Do not overcook. Set aside in the refrigerator until chilled through. Once chilled, coat the chicken with two tablespoons BBQ sauce; set aside in the refrigerator. 

To make the pizza 
 
Place a pizza stone in the center of the oven and preheat to 500 degrees for one hour before cooking pizzas. 

Use a large spoon to spread 1/4 cup BBQ sauce evenly over the surface of the prepared dough within the rim. Sprinkle 1 tablespoon smoked Gouda cheese over the sauce. Cover with 3/4 cup shredded mozzarella. 

Distribute half the chicken pieces evenly over the cheese (approximately 18 pieces). Place approximately 18 to 20 pieces of red onion over the surface. Sprinkle an additional 1/4 cup mozzarella over the top of the pizza. 

Transfer the pizza to the oven; bake until the crust is crisp and golden and the cheese at the center is bubbly (about 8 to 10 minutes). When the pizza is cooked, carefully remove it from the oven; sprinkle 1 tablespoon cilantro over the hot surface. Slice and serve. 

Repeat with the remaining ingredients for a second pizza. (The two pizzas may be prepared simultaneously if you are careful in placing the pizzas at opposite corners of your pizza stone.) 



START RECIPE

California Pizza Kitchen Chicken Tequila Fettuccine 
February 3, 2009 1 Comment  
Facebook0Tweet0Pin1Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe  
California Pizza Kitchen's Chicken Tequila Fettuccine is a great way to serve up a meal for guests.  Fresh vegetables and Tequila make for a dinner your guests will appreciate.  The California Pizza Kitchen has a great cookbook The California Pizza Kitchen Cookbook. 

California Pizza Kitchen Recipe 

California Pizza Kitchen Chicken Tequila Fettuccine 
You might like: 
How to Cook a Ribeye Roast (this site) 
McDonalds Tartar Sauce – Copycat Recipe (this site) 
Logans Roadhouse Fried Mushrooms (this site) 
 Which Evil Character Are You? (WomensForum) 
Recommended by  
California Pizza Kitchen Chicken Tequila Fetticcine 
Author: CopyKat.comRecipe Type: Copycat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Main dish Recipes, Pasta RecipesPrep time: 15 minutesCook time: 30 minutesServes: 4California Pizza Kitchen Chicken Tequila Fetticcine 
This dish is tasty the family will love it! 

Ingredients  
1 pound dry spinach fettuccine (or 2 pounds fresh) 
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro (2 tablespoons reserved for garnish/finish) 
2 tablespoons minced fresh garlic 
2 tablespoons minced jalapeno pepper (seeds and veins may be eliminated if milder flavor is desired) 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter (reserve tablespoon per saute) 
1/2 cup chicken stock (preferably homemade) 
2 tablespoons gold tequila 
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lime juice 
3 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 1/4 pounds chicken breast, diced 3/4 inch 
1/4 medium red onion, thinly sliced 
1/2 medium red bell pepper, thinly sliced 
1/2 medium yellow bell pepper, thinly sliced 
1/2 medium green bell pepper, thinly sliced 
1 1/2 cups heavy cream 
Directions 
1. Prepare rapidly boiling, salted water to cook pasta; cook until al dente, 8 to 10 minutes for dry pasta, approximately 3 minutes for fresh. Pasta may be cooked slightly ahead of time, rinsed and oiled and then flashed (reheated) in boiling water or cooked to coincide with the finishing of the sauce/topping. 

2. Cook 1/3 cup cilantro, garlic and jalapeno in 2 tablespoons butter over medium heat for 4 to 5 minutes. Add stock, tequila and lime juice. Bring the mixture to a boil and cook until reduced to a paste like consistency; set aside. 

3. Pour soy sauce over diced chicken; set aside for 5 minutes. Meanwhile cook onion and peppers, stirring occasionally, with remaining butter over medium heat. When the vegetables have wilted (become limp), add 

chicken and soy sauce; toss and add reserved tequila/lime paste and cream. 

4. Bring the sauce to a boil; boil gently until chicken is cooked through and sauce is thick (about 3 minutes). 

When sauce is done, toss with well-drained spinach fettuccine and reserved cilantro. 

5. Serve family style or transfer to serving dishes, evenly distributing chicken and vegetables. 




START RECIPE

Captain Ds Batter Dipped Fish  
March 15, 2017 16 Comments  
Facebook6Tweet0Pin54Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe
Captain Ds makes amazing batter dipped fish. If you are looking for a great plate of Fish and Chips, this is the place you want to go. 

You can make Captain Ds Batter Dipped Fish at home, this tastes just like it does in the restaurant.  


I have a confession to make; I love Captain Ds Batter Dipped Fish. They can't be found everywhere, but for me, this is a guilty pleasure. If you are lucky enough to live near one, you may feel the same way. Their battered dipped fish has to be some of the best fish around. All of your food is freshly made to order, they have a diverse menu so that you can get a variety of seafood dishes, but for me, their battered dipped fish is my personal favorite. 

One of my favorite things about preparing a copycat recipe at home is you can modify a recipe if you like. For example, this fish Alan Pollock is used for their famous recipe. You could use cod or another hearty fish. You could even use your leftover batter to create onion rings; it's completely up to you. 

You can recreate Captain Ds Batter Dipped Fish at home with this copycat recipe.  
There are many reasons why this fish is so tasty. What makes their batter so good is that the flour mixture is nicely seasoned. So often a battered isn't seasoned quite right, and it may miss its mark on flavor, not here. You may wonder what oil to fry the fish in, I use straight up vegetable oil. They do not use a peanut oil because that could create an allergy problem for people. I also try to use oil that is clean and fresh. 


One of my favorite tools for frying is my T-fal FR8000 Oil Filtration Ultimate EZ Clean Easy to clean 3.5-Liter Fry Bet Stainless Steel Immersion Deep Fryer, 2.6-Pound, Silver. Why I like this fryer is that it enables you to filter the oil after usage, and then store the oil if desired. Oil for frying often begins to burn because small particles of batter disperse into the oil and they eventually burn. If you use a fryer with a filter this will help you. You could also run oil through a coffee filter when you are done, this will work as well. This fryer makes this t for you easy and safe. Years ago, I used to work in a restaurant and straining the oil was the t I liked least. The oil was hot, and you could burn yourself. 

Tips for frying Batter-Dipped fish 
So there is a little technique when preparing the fish I want to share with you. I like to blot my fish with a paper towel to make it dry before I dip it into the batter. This way the batter will stick on better. When placing the fish into the fryer I try to place it in carefully. So that I hold the fish carefully in the oil about halfway. By holding it for a second or two before dropping into the hot oil you can enable the crust to cook a little so it won't then get stuck to the bottom of the fryer bet. I find that if I simply put the fish in there, the batter can cook around the bet. 

I hope you try this recipe for Captain Ds Batter Dipped Fish, it is one of my guilty pleasures. 

Make copycat Captain Ds Batter Dipped Fish with this copycat recipe.  

Other recipes to try. 
Captain Ds Cole Slaw 
Long John Silvers Fried Fish 

This blog post contains an affliate link 

You might like: 
 Which Movie Villain Are You? (WomensForum) 
O’Charley’s Baked Potato Soup (this site) 
Chili’s Chicken Enchilada Soup (this site) 
Hooters Chicken Wing Sauce (this site) 
Recommended by  
Captain Ds Batter Dipped Fish 
Author: Stephanie ManleyRecipe Type: Prep time: 10 minutesCook time: 10 minutesServes: 4Captain Ds Batter Dipped Fish 
You can recreate Captain Ds Battered Dipped fish at home. 

Ingredients 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
1/2 cup cornstarch 
1 tablespoon baking powder 
2 teaspoons kosher salt 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1 1/2 cups water 
4 fish fillets (cod, hake, or other mild white fish) 
vegetable oil for frying 
Directions 
Preheat the oil to 350 degrees in either a deep fryer or a medium sized saucepan. In a medium bowl, mix together the flour, cornstarch, baking powder, salt, and cayenne pepper. Whisk in the water. The batter will get a little foamy, continue to mix. 

Pat the fish dry with a paper towel to remove excess moister. Coat the fish in the batter, working to fully coat each fillet. Deep-fry the fish for 3 to 4 minutes. You want to cook the fish until it is golden brown. If you fry multiple pieces at once you may want to separate the pieces when cooking. Drain fish on a wire rack. 



START RECIPE

Captain Ds Cole Slaw 
May 3, 2015 13 Comments  
Facebook1Tweet0Pin25Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Captain Ds Cole Slaw is a favorite of mine. Whenever people talk about their guilty pleasures, this would be one of mine. Their creamy sweet and savory cole slaw is simple to make, and it tastes wonderful. 

Captain D's Cole Slaw recipe from CopyKat.com 

The summer begs for picnics and cool and refreshing salads. Are you looking for an easy cole slaw recipe? This may be the one you like to dry. This recipe is made simply, chopped cabbage, chopped carrots, and a tangy slightly sweet sauce that is drizzled over these freshly chopped vegetables is hard to resist. 

I personally am a huge fan of Captain Ds. This is one of the few chain fish and chip places around. I personally love fish when done in this style, while you shouldn't enjoy it too often it can be a big treat. Whenever I go here, the cole slaw is what I go for first. This is a creamy cole slaw, and I personally love the note of celery seed in this recipe. It adds something that most cole slaw does not have. 

I love this side dish, it is an inexpensive recipe to make. So this recipe is perfect for when you have a large crowd to serve. Homemade cole slaw tastes so much than any store bought version. Yes, you can buy a large tub of cole slaw in the store, but I often find the crunch of the cabbage gone, since this isn't difficult to make, you should give this cabbage salad a try in your own home. 

You might like: 
McDonalds Tartar Sauce – Copycat Recipe (this site) 
Panda Express Chow Mein (this site) 
 Can We Guess Which Movie Villain You Are? (WomensForum) 
Logans Roadhouse Fried Mushrooms (this site) 
Recommended by  
Captain D's Cole Slaw 
Author: Stephanie Manley via CopyKat.comRecipe Type: Side DishPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 5 minutesServes: 10Captain D's Cole Slaw 
You can prepare this restaurant favorite made at home with this copycat recipe. 

Ingredients 
1 medium sized head cabbage chopped fine 
2 large carrots chopped 
2 tablespoons white onion chopped fine 
3/4 cup mayonnaise 
2 tablespoons white distilled vinegar 
2 teaspoons sugar 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt or 1 1/2 teaspoons celery salt and omit celery seed 
1/2 teaspoon celery seed 
Directions 
Chop cabbage, celery, and onions and place into a large bowl. In a small bowl combine mayonnaise, distilled vinegar, sugar, salt, and celery seed. Whisk dressing together and drizzle over the chopped vegetables. Stir to combine dressing and vegetables until the cabbage is well coated. This recipe is best when allowed to rest in a covered dish in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. 

You can use either celery salt, or salt and celery seed. I personally like the flavor of the salt and celery seed, because the flavor is slightly more rich this way. 



START RECIPE

Carrabba’s Sausage and Lentil Soup 
April 18, 2016 29 Comments 
Facebook37Tweet0Pin120Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Carrabba's Sausage and Lentil Soup is a delicious and hearty soup you can make. One bite, and you will fall in love with this simple soup. 

Make a hearty bowl of Carrabba's Sausage and Lentil Soup with this easy copycat recipe.  

I love getting recipe requests from people like yourself. This way I get to try new recipes all of the time. This recipe had been ed by several readers of CopyKat.com. Sausage and lentil soup have the benefit of being an inexpensive soup to prepare and it is hearty. I love soups like this they are filling, and they reheat well. This Carrabba's Sausage and Lentil soup tastes even better the second day. 

Carrabbas sausage and lentil soup , you can make this copycat recipe.  

Carrabba's makes everything up fresh for you. If you get the right table, you can  them prepare your dinner right in front of you. You know your meal is going to taste very well when you look at the cooks there prepare your food with fresh ingredients. 

This sausage and lentil soup are very easy to make. You don't need to buy exotic ingredients. This soup is made with Italian sausage, onions, carrots, celery, chicken stock, and a little love on your part. You can put this soup together in about 90 minutes from start to finish. 


I know you are going to love this soup. If you want to make this soup a little lighter, you can use Turkey Italian sausage. The Italian sausage is the most critical flavor of the soup. I suggest that you get the kind that you like the best. The type with a thick fennel flavor are the best ones to get. 

When starting out this soup I like to saute all of my vegetables before I add in the meat, I think makes the vegetables caramelize a little more and gives them additional flavor. You should cook this in a slow cooker if you wanted once you get the sausage browned. 

Love restaurant style soups? Be sure to check out some of these. 
Olive Garden Zuppa Toscana Slow Cooker 
Olive Garden Grilled Sausage and Pepper Rustica 

You might like: 
How to Cook a Ribeye Roast (this site) 
 Who is your celebrity soulmate? (WomensForum) 
Top 25 Recipes from CopyKat.com 2015 (this site) 
Taco Bell Baja Blast Freeze (this site) 
Recommended by  
Carrabba's Sausage and Lentil Soup  
Author: Stephanie ManleyRecipe Type: SoupPrep time: 15 minutesCook time: 1 hour, 30 minutesServes: 8Carrabba's Sausage and Lentil Soup 
You can recreate this great soup recipe from Carrabba's with this copycat recipe. 

Ingredients  
1 cup diced white onion 
1/2 cup diced carrot 
1/2 cup diced celery 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 teaspoons salt 
2 tablespoons butter or olive oil 
1 pound Italian sausage 
1 48 ounce package low sodium chicken broth 
1 1/2 teaspoons Italian seasoning 
1 14.5 ounce can diced tomatoes 
1 cup brown lentils 
Directions  
In a large pot add onions, carrots, garlic, and celery and either butter or vegetable oil. Saute until the onions are transparent. Add sausage, and cook until browned. If the sausage is fairly lean drain the excess oil. 

Add chicken broth, Italian seasoning, diced tomatoes and brown lentils. Cover with lid. And simmer for about 1 hour. You may want to add some additional water if too much water cooks out during the cooking process. 



START RECIPE

Carrabbas Chicken Bryan 
August 15, 2011 50 Comments  
Facebook5Tweet0Pin100Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Carrabbas Chicken Bryan is one of my favorite chicken dishes that you can find in a restaurant. I love the chicken drenched in a lemon-basil wine sauce with a piece of tangy goat cheese on top. I love to order this dish with mashed potatoes because to miss any of this sauce is well something that is almost criminal. 

Make Carrabbas Chicken Bryan at home with this easy copycat recipe.   Make chicken extraordinary with this copycat recipe.  

Carrabbas Chicken Bryan 
You don't have to go out to dinner to have something that tastes this incredible; you can make this dish at home. While this recipe may take an extra step or two, I think you will find that it will be well worth the extra step or to make this your dinner extra special. But in no time you will have a delicious meal. 

What is not to love about Carrabbas? They are one of the few restaurants that have an open kitchen. The open kitchen experience helps you see how the food is cooked, and you get to smell the food and  your meal being prepared. This makes Carrabba's one of my favorite places to go for dinner. 

Make Carrabbas Chicken Bryan with these easy to find ingredients.  

You might wonder what makes the Chicken Bryan so flavorful? This recipe combines many layers of flavors. One of the most notable characteristics is goat cheese. The whole dish is accentuated with goat cheese. Fresh basil and sun-dried tomatoes slices give the dish a wonderful new flavor. 

Best of all you can put this chicken recipe together in about 30 minutes. While you have the chicken cooking you may want to roast some vegetables in the oven, or perhaps some tasty mashed potatoes would go well with this recipe. 

Love Carrabbas? Check out these recipes. 
Carrabbas Grill Seasoning  
Carrabbas Sausage and Lentil Soup 

You might like: 
 Which Famous Villain Are You? (WomensForum) 
Applebee’s Pico de Gallo (this site) 
Houston’s Southwest Caesar Salad (this site) 
How to Make Pickle Dip (this site) 
Recommended by  
Carrabbas Chicken Bryan 
Author: CopyKat RecipesRecipe Type: Chicken Recipes, Copycat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat RecipesPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 40 minutesServes: 4Carrabbas Chicken Bryan 

Ingredients  
4 chicken breasts 
salt 
pepper 
olive oil 
8 ounces of goat cheese 
8 tablespoons of butter 
3/4 cup of dry white wine 
2 tablespoons lemon juice 
1/4 cup chopped white onions 
2 teaspoons chopped garlic 
2 tablespoons basil, sliced thin 
2 tablespoons sun-dried tomatoes 
Directions 
Prepare chicken by wrapping in plastic wrap, and pounding out until thin. Remove chicken from plastic wrap and pat dry with a paper towel. Season chicken with salt and pepper, and brush with olive oil. Cook chicken on a grill until it is done, it should take 3 to 4 minutes on each side. When chicken is done, place chicken on the plate, and cover lightly with plastic wrap. Slice the goat cheese into four slices and shape the cheese into disks, one for each piece of chicken. 

Prepare the sauce by sauteing the onions and garlic in 2 tablespoons of butter. Cook garlic and onions until they are fragrant, and the onions are translucent. Add wine and lemon juice to pan, and cook wine until it has reduced by half, by simmering the wine gently. When the wine has been reduced by half, add 3 tablespoons of cold butter, whisk until the butter has melted completely. Turn off the burner, and add remaining butter, whisk in. The sauce should be getting thick now. Now, pour sauce through a strainer, to strain out the onions and garlic, return the sauce to the warm pan, and stir in half of the basil, and add sun dried tomatoes. 

Plate the chicken by placing one chicken breast onto a plate, place the goat cheese on the chicken, and then spoon sauce over the chicken. Top each chicken breast with the remaining basil. 



START RECIPE

Cheddars Santa Spinach Dip Fe Dip 
September 19, 2015 49 Comments  
Facebook43Tweet0Pin830Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Cheddar's Casual Cafe is a wonderful restaurant. It does a good job of combining a moderate price and a delicious menu that everyone will love. One of my favorite appetizers there is the Santa Fe Dip. Now you can recreate this recipe at home with this easy copycat recipe. 
Make Cheddars Santa Fe Spinach Dip, this recipe is so easy, and so tasty.  Enjoy this copycat recipe tonight. 

Cheddar's is a great value for the price. Menu items here range from chicken tenders, grilled chicken, and even steak. They have an extensive bar menu that will please any cocktail, lovers. They have a wide range of appetizers; the Santa Fe Dip features spinach, a four cheese blend that is irresistible. Best of all, this is an easy recipe to prepare. You will fall in love with this one. It is hard to resist this dip. It is served with cool and refreshing sour cream and salsa. 

If you like artichoke and spinach dip, this will be an appetizer you will love. This can be easily prepared ahead of time, and reheated when you have a party or special gathering. I like this dip because it isn't too spicy, and it is perfect for a dip. They serve this dip with warmed tortilla chips. You could also serve this dip with carrot sticks and celery sticks. 

You might wonder what makes this recipe so special, this creamy spinach dip is the perfectly seasoned with onions, garlic, and a tiny bit of jalapeno pepper for a hint of spice. The four cheese blend adds the perfect amount of cheese flavor to go with this dip. This spinach dip is served with refreshing sour cream and salsa. 

Cheddars Santa Fe Spinach Dip 

I hope you enjoy this easy to prepare recipe. If you enjoy this dip, you may like some of these appetizers. 
Olive Garden Spinach Artichoke Dip 
Easy Artichoke Dip 

You might like: 
 Which Antihero Are You? (WomensForum) 
Jason’s Deli Chicken Pot Pie (this site) 
Suddenly Salad Ranch & Bacon Salad (this site) 
Panda Express Chow Mein (this site) 
Recommended by  
Cheddars Santa Fe Spinach Dip 
Author: Stephanie Manley @CopyKat.comRecipe Type: AppetizerPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 30 minutesServes: 4Cheddars Santa Fe Spinach Dip  
The Cheddars Santa Fe Spinach Dip is a delicious savory dip you can make ahead, and serve later. Serve this with sour cream, salsa, and warmed tortilla chips. 

Ingredients  
10 ounces frozen spinach, thawed and drained 
1//2 cup finely diced white onion 
1 (8-ounce) package of cream cheese 
1/2 cup shredded white Cheddar cheese 
1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 
1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese 
2 teaspoons minced garlic 
2 teaspoons finely minced jalapeno pepper 
1/2 teaspoon seasoned salt 
1/2 cup sour cream 
1/2 cup salsa 
corn tortilla chips 
Directions 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. In a medium bowl, combine the spinach, onions, cream cheese, Cheddar cheese, Monterey Jack cheese, mozzarella cheese, garlic, jalapeno pepper, and seasoned salt. Stir until well blended. Spread into a 1-quart casserole dish and bake for approximately 30 minutes or until the top is nice and bubbly. Serve with sour cream, salsa, and warmed tortilla chips. 



START RECIPE

Cheesecake Factory Red Velvet Cheesecake 
June 17, 2017 7 Comments 
Facebook38Tweet0Pin310Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
The Cheesecake Factory Red Velvet Cheesecake has been a long requested recipe for CopyKat.com. I am proud to add this recipe to the blog. 

Make your own Cheesecake Factory Red Velvet Cheesecake at home with this copycat recipe.  

Moist layers of Red Velvet Cake and our Original Cheesecake covered with our special Cheesecake Factory cream cheese frosting. One bit of this delectable dessert and you will be amazed at the flavor combination. Rich chocolate cake and the creamy cheesecake is a combination that was made in heaven. 

Many recipes online that are copycat versions miss the fact that this cheesecake layer is actually in here twice, not just once. Now to make this happen you may need to purchase a kitchen scale so you equally measure out the cheesecake batter evenly. I personally love my Escali Kitchen Scale. I used this one in cooking school, and it is super easy to use, and it can take a lot of use. 

This is not a difficult recipe to make, but it does require some planning and some time. Read through all the ingredients and instructions, prepare ahead, and get ready to wow your guests with this gorgeous, red and white, showstopping cheesecake. 

Since the contrast between the red cake and pale cheesecake is so striking, it will look best if each layer is the same thickness. If you don’t own a kitchen scale, consider getting one so you can weigh the batters to divide them exactly in half. 

For example, the cheesecake batter weighed 39 ounces, so I knew needed 19.5 ounces of batter in each pan. Your batter will most likely weigh the same as mine, but weigh it just to make sure. 

Take a bite out of your own homemade Cheesecake Factory Red Velvet Cheesecake when you make it at home.  

Do you love The Cheesecake Factory? Be sure to check out these copycat recipes. 
Cheesecake Factory Chicken Piccata 
Cheesecake Factory Chicken Madiera 
Cheesecake Factory Oreo Cheesecake 

This recipe is from Jenni Field, her blog is the Pastry Chef Online, be sure to check out her recipes over at her blog. 

You might like: 
Senate Navy Bean Soup (this site) 
Copycat Panera Bread Macaroni and Cheese (this site) 
Logans Roadhouse Fried Mushrooms (this site) 
 Which Movie Villain Are You? (WomensForum) 
Recommended by  
Cheesecake Factory Red Velvet Cheesecake 
Author: Jenni FieldRecipe Type: DessertPrep time: 2 hoursCook time: 2 hoursServes: 10Cheesecake Factory Red Velvet Cheesecake  
You can recreate the Cheesecake Factory Red Velvet Cheesecake at home with this recipe. 

Ingredients 
For the Red Velvet Cake 
1 box Duncan Hines Red Velvet Cake Mix 
3/4 cup water 
1/4 cup sour cream 
1/2 cup mayonnaise 
3 large eggs plus 1 egg yolk 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract 
For the Cheesecake 
3 blocks (1 1/2 pounds) cream cheese, softened 
3/4 cup granulated sugar 
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla paste or extract 
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 
3 large eggs at room temperature 
1/4 cup heavy cream at room temperature 
1 tablespoon flour or cornstarch 
For the Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 1/2 blocks (12 oz) cream cheese, softened 
1 stick (4 oz) unsalted butter, softened 
Heavy pinch kosher salt 
1 teaspoon vanilla paste or extract 
20 oz (5 cups) powdered sugar 
3-4 Tablespoons heavy cream 
For Garnish 
1 to 1 1/2 4 oz bars of real white chocolate (not candy coating) 
Directions 
To Make the Cake 

Preheat oven to 350F. Spray 2 9” cake pans with pan spray. Line the bottoms with rounds of parchment and 

spray again. Set aside. 

In a large bowl, combine the cake mix, water, sour cream, mayonnaise, eggs, and yolk, salt, and vanilla. Using a hand mixer, mix on low speed for about 30 seconds. Scrape the bowl. Increase speed to medium and beat for 2 minutes. Divide the batter evenly between the two pans and bake in the center of the oven for 22-25 minutes, or until the tops spring back when lightly pressed, and the cakes are just starting to pull away from the sides of the pan. Allow to cool in pans for 15 minutes and then invert onto cooling racks. Invert again, so cakes cool right-side up. Note, the cakes will dome quite a bit. Once cool, use a large serrated knife to slice off the entire cake dome as evenly as you can. You should have two even discs of cake approximately 3/4” thick. Wrap well and refrigerate. 

For the Cheesecake 

Place racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven. Put a rimmed baking sheet on each rack. Preheat the oven to 300F. Spray 2 9” cake pans with pan spray. Line the bottoms with rounds of parchment and spray again. Don’t skip the parchment, because you’ll be turning these out once chilled. Set aside. 

Bring 2 quarts of water to a boil. Put the cream cheese in a large bowl. Using a hand mixer, beat on medium-low speed until smooth. Add sugar, vanilla, and salt, and continue to beat until well combined and smooth. 

Scrape the bowl as necessary. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping the bowl as needed. 

Whisk the cream and flour together, so there are no lumps. Beat this mixture evenly into the rest. Pour half of the batter into each prepared pan and smooth the tops. Pull out the top rack, place one of the cheesecakes into the rimmed baking sheet and then pour in boiling water to come up to the level of the batter, about 3/4”. 

Carefully slide the rack back in. 

Repeat with the other pan on the lower rack. 

Bake 20 minutes. Carefully rotate each pan and then continue to bake an additional 10 minutes. 

Turn the heat off, open the oven door for a few seconds to let some heat escape, and then close the oven door. Allow cakes to remain in the cooling oven an additional 30 minutes. 

Crack oven door open and let sit for 30 more minutes. Remove to racks and run a thin spatula around the inside of each pan to make sure the cakes have released from the sides. Cool completely, and then chill in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours or overnight. 

When cooled, turn cheesecakes out onto parchment-lined lined racks. Place lined rack on top of the pan, invert both and give a firm rap on the counter. The cheesecake should release from the pan with no problem. If you do have issues, set the bottom of the pan in warm water for 15 seconds and try again. 

Freeze the cheesecakes and then wrap well. Leave in the freezer until ready to assemble. 
 
For the Cream Cheese Frosting 

In a large bowl, use a hand mixer to beat the cream cheese and butter together until smooth. Add the salt and vanilla and continue to beat until smooth and creamy. Slowly beat in the powdered sugar, scraping the bowl as necessary. Beat in the cream, a bit at a time, until you have a nice spreading consistency. 

To Assemble and Decorate 

It is easiest to assemble the cake on the stand or platter you’ll be serving it on, so make sure it is a good 12” in diameter and is nice and flat. Using a vegetable peeler, shave the sides of the bars of white chocolate to make curls. Catch them on a piece of parchment or a plate and refrigerate until needed. 

Place a tablespoon of frosting in the center of your platter and then press one of the cake rounds down into it, making sure to center the cake. Spread 3/4 cup of frosting evenly over the cake layer. Place one of the frozen cheesecake rounds onto the frosting and press down lightly. 

Frost with an additional 3/4 cup of frosting. Place the other cake round on top of the frosting and press down gently. Top with another 3/4 cup of frosting and then finish with the last frozen round of cheesecake. 

Scrape the rest of the frosting out onto the top of the cake. Spread it out into an even layer and then spread the excess that extends over the edge of the cake thinly around the sides. Use an offset spatula to make a simple zigzag design in the frosting on the top of the cake. Press the white chocolate curls liberally around the sides of the cake. Leave in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours before slicing and serving with a signature 

tall swirl of whipped cream. 




START RECIPE

Chuys Creamy Jalapeno Dip 
August 24, 2014 53 Comments 
Facebook53Tweet0Pin230Google+0StumbleUpon57Print Recipe 
Chuys Creamy Jalapeno Dip is known all around. This is the perfect dip it is creamy with just a hint of spice. 

Make your own homemade Chuys Creamy Jalapeno sauce at home with this easy copycat recipe.  

I personally love Chuy's they do a wonderful job on Tex Mex food. They have some of the best chips, they are thin and crispy. They make delicious margaritas, and they also do an amazing job on their enchiladas. For me, their creamy jalapeno dip is one of their best menu items that they have. This sauce goes well with chips, on top of tacos, on top of a taco salad, or really just about any Tex Mex dish you want to prepare. 

Ingredients for Chuy's Creamy Jalapeno Dip 
This sauce is made fresh, and guess what, you can prepare this yourself it is quick and easy to prepare. This creamy jalapeno dip will stay fresh in your refrigerator for a few days. You will need a few simple ingredients you will need sour cream, mayonnaise, lime, fresh cilantro, pickled jalapeno peppers and some dry buttermilk ranch dressing mix. 

Chuys creamy jalapeno sauce is easy to make with these simple ingredients.  

The pickled jalapeno peppers are very important. These peppers are perfect for recipes. The pickling process seems to take way the sharp heat that jalapenos can often have. The pickled jalapenos are perfect for nachos and all sorts of Tex Mex and Mexican food. I am also using the Hidden Valley Original Ranch Seasoning and Salad Dressing Mix, 16 Ounce. I find this typically available at Sam's and sometimes I have found it in my local grocery stores such as Kroger, or HEB. 

You can use the Hidden Valley Ranch Mix in all sorts of recipes, so it is an ingredient I like to have in my pantry. I use it for my No Time Taco Soup. I think it is cheaper to buy in bulk rather than purchasing in the individual packages. 

This recipe is so easy to make, you can put this dip together in less than five minutes. I like to leave me rest in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour before serving. 

Enjoy this copycat recipe? Be sure to sign up to receive notifications so you can be the first one to new recipes are released. 
Subscribe to CopyKat.com 
Love CopyKat Recipes? Be notified when new recipes are released. 
First Name 

0 of 50 max characters 
Last Name 

Email 

 LET'S DO THIS! 

You might like: 
Logans Roadhouse Fried Mushrooms (this site) 
 Can We Guess Which Movie Villain You Are? (WomensForum) 
How to Make Taco Bell Tacos – Copycat Recipes (this site) 
Chili’s Chicken Enchilada Soup (this site) 
Recommended by  
Chuys Creamy Jalapeno Dip 
Author: Stephanie Manley of CopyKat.comRecipe Type: Dip, saucePrep time: 5 minutesCook time: 1 minuteServes: 8Chuys Creamy Jalapeno Dip 
Recreate this famous recipe, try making your own Chuys Creamy Jalapeno Dip at home. 

Ingredients 
1 cup sour cream 
1 cup mayonnaise 
5 tablespoon dry Ranch Dressing Mix 
1/2 cup pickled jalapeno peppers 
1/2 cup fresh cilantro 
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 
Directions 
Wash and dry the cilantro. Use only the tops of the cilantro steam, discarding the majority of the cilantro stems. Chop cilantro into coarse pieces. Place sour cream, mayonnaise, dry Ranch Dressing mix, jalapeno peppers, lime juice, and coarsely chopped cilantro into a blender. Pulse 7 or 8 times. Pour dip into bowl. 



START RECIPE

Chipotle Mexican Grill Basmati Rice Recipe  
– Known for their freshly made Tex Mex food, their rice is a most requested recipe.  
May 11, 2009 41 Comments 
Facebook0Tweet0Pin34Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Chipotle’s is known for making everything fresh. Every time you go in there, they are busy preparing their signature dishes. Their rice is honestly one of our favorite parts of their menu. This rice is seasoned perfectly with cilantro and lime juice. This makes an excellent side dish on its own. If you enjoy rice, don’t miss this savory version. You can make rice just like the Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants with our copycat recipe. 

chiptole cilantro lime rice 

Chipotle Mexican Basmati Rice 

You might like: 
Instant Pot Thai Chicken Curry with Vegetables (this site) 
 Which Evil Character Are You? (WomensForum) 
Panda Express Chow Mein (this site) 
How to Make Taco Bell Tacos – Copycat Recipes (this site) 
Recommended by  
Chipotle Mexican Cilantro Lime Basmati Rice 
Author: CopyKat RecipesRecipe Type: Copycat Restaurant Recipes,Rice Recipe, CopyKat Recipes, Pasta Recipes, Side Dish RecipeslPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 35 minutesServes: 6Chipotle Mexican Cilantro Lime Basmati Rice 
This rice is very tasty! 

Ingredients  
1 teaspoon vegetable oil or butter 
2/3 cup white basmati rice 
Juice of 1 lime 
1 cup water 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 teaspoons coarsely chopped fresh cilantro 
Directions  
In a heavy 2-quart saucepan, heat the oil or butter over low heat. If using butter, stir it occasionally until melted. Add the rice and lime juice and stir for 1 minute. Add the water and salt. Raise the heat and bring to a boil. Cover, turn down the heat to low, and simmer until the rice is tender and the water is absorbed, about 25 minutes. Fluff the rice with a fork and stir in the cilantro. 

Print Recipe 
Basmati [bahs-MAH-tee] is a long-grained rice with a fine texture. It can be found in Middle Eastern and South Asian markets, as well as some supermarkets. This recipe is attributed to Chipotle’s executive chef and CEO, Steve Ellis. You can get more Chipotle Mexican Grill Recipes here at CopyKat.com, the internet’s home of the best free copycat recipes. You can get more Chipotle Mexican Grill Recipes here at CopyKat.com, the internet's home of the best free copycat recipes. 



START RECIPE

Chipotle Mexican Grill Guacamole  
November 27, 2011 24 Comments  
Facebook1Tweet0Pin29Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Chipotle Mexican Grill Guacamole is one of my favorite guacamole around. There is generally one major problem with guacamole, and that is simply, it is served in smaller portions than what I would like. Now, you can make guacamole with this CopyKat recipe just like the Chipotle Mexican Grill does. 

fresh guacamole on a plate 

Friends have often laughed at me, I think of guacamole being the “benevolent” family member when it comes to Tex Mex food. I tend to think of it as something that takes away that heat from peppers. The creaminess of the guacamole seems to act as a salve on a burning tongue like nothing else. 
One thing I think we should encourage people to do is to prepare food at home, I have seen guacamole sold pre-made in stores, some of it I find scary it looks like a green paste, its edible, but it isn't good. Chipotle Mexican Grill makes everything fresh, and they do so right in front of you. So you can see them use only fresh ingredients, and it really makes a big difference in the way the food tastes. So here is my take on their guacamole, I hope you enjoy guacamole, half as much as I do! 

You might like: 
Panda Express Chow Mein (this site) 
Chili’s Chicken Enchilada Soup (this site) 
 Which Villain Are You? (WomensForum) 
How to Make Taco Bell Tacos – Copycat Recipes (this site) 
Recommended by  
Chipotle Mexican Grill Guacamole 
Author: CopyKat RecipesRecipe Type: Appetizer Recipes, Copycat Restaurant Recipes, VideoPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 10 minutesServes: 8Chipotle Mexican Grill Guacamole 
Make guacamole just like Chipotle Mexican Grill does at home, its so easy to do. 

Ingredients  
6 small ripe avocados (if you are using the large ones 3 will do) 
1/2 cup minced red onion 
1 jalapeno pepper, minced 
1 clove garlic, mixed 
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lime juice 
kosher salt to taste 
Directions  
Cut the avocados in half, scoop out the meat into a large bowl, and gently break them into smaller pieces, but leave them very chunky.  Add the red onion, jalapeno, garlic, and lime juice.  Mix the ingredients together and salt to your desired taste. 



START RECIPE

Cheesecake Factory Bakery Oreo Cheesecake  
February 6, 2009 213 Comments 
Facebook28Tweet0Pin4.4kGoogle+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
This Oreo Cheesecake is a creation of the Cheesecake Factory—they know their cheesecakes. It is one of my personal favorites. You can’t go wrong with this one. Who can turn down a cheesecake with Oreo cookies? 

Cheesecake Factory Oreo Cheesecake copycat that you can make.  Tastes just like the real thing!  

The Cheesecake Factory is known for their many delicious recipes. Their menu is vast and is sure to please everyone that goes there. One of their standby cheesecakes is their famous Oreo cheesecake recipe. You can recreate this recipe at home with this recipe. 

If you have never made a cheesecake before, they aren't too difficult to make. As with many baking recipes you need to follow a few simple guidelines to have success at making your cheesecake. 

Tips for making a cheesecake 
Here are my tips for making a great cheesecake. 

All ingredients need to be at room temperature before you begin. And keep the mixer on a low setting during the mixing and beating process. 

Do not over-mix the cheesecake; it will fall if too much air is whipped into the cheesecake. Mix only until ingredients are incorporated. Beating a cheesecake for 2 or 3 extra minutes is not helpful. 

Cheesecakes may not be fully set when removed from the oven – this is OK. The cheesecake may have a slight wiggle in the center when you remove it from the oven. The cheesecake will continue to set up after you remove it from the oven. It will firm up as it cools. 

To prevent cracking when the cheesecake cools run a knife around the edge of the pan to loosen the cheesecake from the springform pan. Once the cheesecake cools completely remove the springform pan, it is important to wait until the cheesecake sets up completely. 

Make this copycat recipe for the Cheesecake Factory Oreo Cheesecake.  

Please note there is an additional 1 cup of butter that was added to the batter when I made it for the video. This is an optional ingredient. It simply adds some extra richness to the cheesecake. You can leave it out, or add it like I did for the video. 

Is a Waterbath Necessary for this Oreo Cheesecake? 
It is not necessary it is highly recommended. Please consider using a water bath for this recipe. It helps to moderate the temperature of the oven. Most ovens do not heat continually; they cycle between not heating and then heating to maintain the temperature. 

What size of pan do I use 
Ideally please use the 9-inch sized pan, this is the size of the pan this recipe was developed. If you desire to use a different sized pan, your cooking times will vary. 

How many Oreos do I use? 
We are using Oreo cookies in three different measurements. For the crust, you need to crush the cookies before you measure them. For the batter, you will use six cookies, and for the top of the cheesecake, you will use eight cookies. 

Make this delicious copycat recipe for the Cheesecake Factory Oreo Cheesecake.  

Update December 2016 
Please use a 9-inch pan to prepare the cheesecake. The Oreos do not look pretty, but I promise the cake will taste wonderful. 

You might like: 
Taco Bell Baja Blast Freeze (this site) 
 Which Antihero Are You? (WomensForum) 
Chick-Fil-A Frosted Lemonade (this site) 
Panda Express Chow Mein (this site) 
Recommended by  
Cheesecake Factory Bakery Oreo Cheesecake 
Author: CopyKat.comRecipe Type: Dessert Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, CopyKat Restaurant RecipesPrep time: 25 minutesCook time: 1 hourServes: 10Cheesecake Factory Bakery Oreo Cheesecake 
Cheesecake Factory cheese cake is so yummy. And this recipe is just as yummy! 

Ingredients 
Please note: this recipe tastes best when you allow it to rest for 24 hours before serving. It isn't necessary, but a suggestion for optimal flavor. 
Crust 
1 1/2 cups Oreo cookie crumbs (about 23 Oreos, finely chopped) 
2 tablespoons butter, melted, plus more for the pan 
Filling 
3 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, at room temperature 
1 cup sugar 
5 large eggs, at room temperature 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour 
1 (8-ounce) container sour cream, at room temperature 
6 Oreo cookies for the batter 
9 Oreo cookies for the top of the cheesecake 
OPTIONAL INGREDIENT 
1 cup of butter 
Pan Needed 
9 inch Spring Form Pan 

Directions  
Crust 

Mix melted butter with Oreo crumbs and press in a 9-inch spring pan cover the bottom and 1 1/2 up the sides with crumbs, set aside. Note, you do not remove the filling of the cookies, when you make crumbs out of them. Leave the filling in the cookies when you crush them. 

Filling 
 
All Ingredients need to be at room temperature before beginning. Beat cream cheese until light and fluffy (You can add the 1 cup of butter as listed as an optional ingredient). Keep mixer on a low setting during the mixing and beating process. Add sugar gradually and continue beating cream cheese until mixed through. Add eggs one at a time and continue to beat until blended. Measure the vanilla, salt, and flour, pour into the cream cheese and egg mixture and beat until smooth. Add the sour cream and beat well. Turn off the mixer and stir in the six coarsely chopped Oreo cookies with a spoon. 

Pour cream cheese into the spring form pan and place the 8 coarsely chopped Oreo Cookies on top of the cream mixture. Place pan on the top rack and in the middle of a preheated oven at 325 degrees and bake for one hour. The Cheesecake will be done when it jiggles slightly in the middle when the pan is gently shaken. If the cheesecake is very jiggly, then cook for an additional 15 minutes. When time is up prop the oven door open and let the cheesecake stay in the oven for one hour. Remove from oven and let cool enough to place in the refrigerator for 24 hours. It is worth the anticipation. A cheesecake should season. The flavor ripens and becomes enriched. 

Yield: 16 servings 

Print Recipe 




START RECIPE

Cheesecake Factory Chicken Piccata  
March 22, 2015 18 Comments  
Facebook21Tweet0Pin69Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
The Cheesecake Factory Chicken Piccata has to be one of my favorite ways to enjoy this classic dish. Unlike other chicken piccata dishes this one contains mushrooms, and has a creamy sauce that is hard to beat. Soon you can be recreating this dish just they prepare this recipe in the restaurant. 

Cheesecake Factory Chicken Piccata copycat recipe from CopyKat.com 

I personally love dishes that you can make from a chicken breast. For me, this is a go to stable for a weeknight meal. This means you can have dinner on the table in a flash. Who doesn't want to have dinner on the table without a lot of time and effort? 

What makes this recipe from the Cheesecake Factory different? Most chicken piccata recipes do not have mushrooms. I know you will love the Cheesecake Factory Chicken Piccata. We will use baby Portobello mushrooms in this recipe. They offer a little more flavor than your traditional white button mushrooms. This recipe also calls for a big of dry white wine. If you don't have any dry white wine on hand, you can use a dry Vermouth. Dry Vermouth works as a nice substitute for white wine. If you do not drink alcohol, I would use some chicken broth, it won't taste as well, but it will do nicely. 

I think one of the key ingredients that makes this dish extra special are the capers. I love capers, I have used them in my Tartar sauce recipe. Capers are a type of juniper berry, these add so much flavor. These add a nice pop of flavor that reminds me of a tart salty pickle. You will also need some fresh lemons and some fresh parsley to make this dish special. 

We are going to prepare this dish with 1 to 1 and 1/2 pounds of chicken breast. This could be 3 smaller breasts or 2 larger ones. We are going to slice the chicken breast horizontally and then we will pound them out thin. This helps your cooking time take just a flash. 

You might like:
How to Make TacoBell Tacos – Copycat Recipes (this site) 
Logans Roadhouse Fried Mushrooms (this site) 
 Which Evil Character Are You? (WomensForum) 
O’Charley’s Baked Potato Soup (this site) 
Recommended by  

Cheesecake Factory Chicken Piccata 
Author: Stephanie Manley @CopyKat.comRecipe Type: Chicken Recipes, Copycat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Favorite RecipesPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 15 minutesServes: 4Cheesecake Factory Chicken Piccata  
Don't miss out on this copycat recipe for this classic Cheesecake Factory chicken piccata. 

Ingredients  
1 to 1 1/2 pounds boneless skinless chicken breast 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1 tablespoon butter 
1 tablespoon oil 
8 ounces sliced Portobello mushrooms 
2 teaspoons butter 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/4 cup butter 
1/4 cup dry white wine 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 tablespoon capers 
2 tablespoons heavy cream 
2 teaspoons fresh chopped parsley 
Serve with cooked angel hair pasta or other type of pasta 
Directions 
Slice chicken breasts in half, they should be about 3/8 to 1/2 inch thick after cutting. Place the chicken breast between plastic wrap and pound thin with a meat pounder. Pound chicken carefully until it reaches about 1/4 inch thick. Season chicken breast with salt and pepper. 
 
Heat a skillet over medium heat and add 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil. Cook chicken breast until brown on both sides, remove from the pan. Reduce the heat slightly and mushrooms, 1 tablespoon butter, and a sprinkle of salt. Saute the mushrooms until they just begin to brown. Remove the mushrooms from the pan. 

Add dry white wine to the pan, and scrape the browned bits off the pan with a wooden spoon. Add butter and lemon juice to the pan, and stir in capers and add heavy cream. Raise heat until the the mixture begins to bubble. Return mushrooms and chicken to the pan. Stir in fresh parsley and serve immediately. Serve with cooked angel hair pasta or other pasta of your choice. 



START RECIPE

Dairy Queen Dude  
August 19, 2012 8 Comments 
Facebook0Tweet0Pin9Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Dairy Queen Dude, also known as a chicken fried steak sandwich is a tasty take on your every day hamburger. When I was in college I worked at a Dairy Queen, and I am quite familiar with how to make these sandwiches. 
 
A chicken fried steak sandwich is a classic living in the southern part of the country. While you can't have a full on chicken fried steak at any meal, you can have a chicken fried steak sandwich when ever you like. By dipping this into buttermilk you get a tangy and crunchy crust that is difficult to beat. 

You might like: 
Anthony’s Coal Fired Wings (this site) 
Panda Express Chow Mein (this site) 
 Can We Guess Which Movie Villain You Are? (WomensForum) 
Better Than Papa John’s Garlic Dipping Sauce (this site) 
Recommended by  
Dairy Queen Dude 
Author: CopyKat RecipesRecipe Type: Copycat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Main dish RecipesPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 15 minutesServes: 4Dairy Queen Dude
You can make a chicken fried steak sandwich and enjoy this flavor anytime. 

Ingredients  
4 4 ounce tenderized beef cutlets - you can use top sirloin, cube steak, round steak 
2 cups flour  
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 
1 cup buttermilk 
1/2 cup water 
4 hamburger buns 
8 slices tomatoes 
4 - 8 pieces of lettuce 
Mayonnaise 
oil for cooking 
Directions  
Preheat oil in a deep skillet to 350 degrees. Add enough oil to cover the bottom 1 1/2 inches of the pan. Prepare seasoned flour by adding flour, salt, and pepper in a shallow dish. Stir dry ingredients together with a fork. In another shallow dish mix together the buttermilk and the water. Season beef cutlets with salt and pepper. Dredge the meat in the flour, then the buttermilk, and then the flour. Ideally allow the floured cutlets to rest for 10-15 minutes before cooking. 

Cook meat cutlets in the hot oil, flip over when the bottom has browned. When both sides are browned remove and allow cooked meat patties to drain on paper towels. 

Assemble the sandwich by placing the chicken fried steak patty on the bottom bun, then build by adding 2 sliced tomatoes, and then the lettuce. Spread mayonnaise on the top bun and place the top bun on the sandwich. 

Variations: You can add pickles and onions, and even a slice of cheese. 


1/4 cup butter 
1/4 cup dry white wine 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 tablespoon capers 
2 tablespoons heavy cream 
2 teaspoons fresh chopped parsley 
Serve with cooked angel hair pasta or other type of pasta 
Directions 
Slice chicken breasts in half, they should be about 3/8 to 1/2 inch thick after cutting. Place the chicken breast between plastic wrap and pound thin with a meat pounder. Pound chicken carefully until it reaches about 1/4 inch thick. Season chicken breast with salt and pepper. 
 
Heat a skillet over medium heat and add 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil. Cook chicken breast until brown on both sides, remove from the pan. Reduce the heat slightly and mushrooms, 1 tablespoon butter, and a sprinkle of salt. Saute the mushrooms until they just begin to brown. Remove the mushrooms from the pan. 

Add dry white wine to the pan, and scrape the browned bits off the pan with a wooden spoon. Add butter and lemon juice to the pan, and stir in capers and add heavy cream. Raise heat until the the mixture begins to bubble. Return mushrooms and chicken to the pan. Stir in fresh parsley and serve immediately. Serve with cooked angel hair pasta or other pasta of your choice. 



START RECIPE

Dairy Queen Dude  
August 19, 2012 8 Comments 
Facebook0Tweet0Pin9Google+0StumbleUpon0Print Recipe 
Dairy Queen Dude, also known as a chicken fried steak sandwich is a tasty take on your every day hamburger. When I was in college I worked at a Dairy Queen, and I am quite familiar with how to make these sandwiches. 
 
A chicken fried steak sandwich is a classic living in the southern part of the country. While you can't have a full on chicken fried steak at any meal, you can have a chicken fried steak sandwich when ever you like. By dipping this into buttermilk you get a tangy and crunchy crust that is difficult to beat. 

You might like: 
Anthony’s Coal Fired Wings (this site) 
Panda Express Chow Mein (this site) 
 Can We Guess Which Movie Villain You Are? (WomensForum) 
Better Than Papa John’s Garlic Dipping Sauce (this site) 
Recommended by  
Dairy Queen Dude 
Author: CopyKat RecipesRecipe Type: Copycat Restaurant Recipes, CopyKat Recipes, Main dish RecipesPrep time: 10 minutesCook time: 15 minutesServes: 4Dairy Queen Dude
You can make a chicken fried steak sandwich and enjoy this flavor anytime. 

Ingredients  
4 4 ounce tenderized beef cutlets - you can use top sirloin, cube steak, round steak 
2 cups flour  
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 
1 cup buttermilk 
1/2 cup water 
4 hamburger buns 
8 slices tomatoes 
4 - 8 pieces of lettuce 
Mayonnaise 
oil for cooking 
Directions  
Preheat oil in a deep skillet to 350 degrees. Add enough oil to cover the bottom 1 1/2 inches of the pan. Prepare seasoned flour by adding flour, salt, and pepper in a shallow dish. Stir dry ingredients together with a fork. In another shallow dish mix together the buttermilk and the water. Season beef cutlets with salt and pepper. Dredge the meat in the flou
